Core Rules
Icar is a Roleplaying game. A Roleplaying game is similar to a film where the players take the roles of the Characters and make up their actions. The Gamesmaster (GM) is the director and all the other Characters the players will meet.
This is where the similarity ends. There is no script and the good guys don’t always win. How the story ends is up to the players and a small amount of luck.
The setting of Icar is a space opera science fiction, set in the far future where a benevolent, autocratic Imperium protects the human race from a rarely-seen race of killer robots called the Droids. With the Droid advance slowed, human occupied space is a trove of opportunity for the Characters to explore. There are no intelligent alien species, travel between the stars is commonplace, friendly robots called Automatons live somewhere between slaves and family members; and a virtual reality internet called Gaia is the backbone of civilisation.
In a single session, Characters will be exploring long deserted colonies, abandoned spacecraft, starting bar fights, hacking into corporate files, escaping colonies invaded by Droids and zipping between the stars. As the Characters grow they can choose bionics or powered armour, wield more powerful weapons and even own their own spacecraft.
The mechanics of Icar are intended to be cinematic, based on using ten-sided dice (D10), two ten-sided dice can be rolled to produce a percentile (a number out of 100 or D100), or a single hundred-sided die (D100) can be used. Common sense should reign over rulings, keep things fast and if a player comes up with an idea that improves fun at the table, go with it.
This book contains a description of the core mechanics, a section describing the broader Galaxy according to Icar, an example campaign setting called Scavengers, Equipment and Technology, Gamesmaster section, and a series of resources, such as Character sheets and quick reference. 
Character Creation
Characters are imaginary people that a player uses to interact with the game world. A Character is a playing piece that can be improved, equipped and killed. Creating a Character is a matter of following the Character creation steps detail below.
The main properties of an Icar Character are:
Concept and Class.
Attributes
Deviant
Skills
Body
Close combat combos
Psychotheatrics
The concept is a description of what the Character is about. Are they a pacifist star cruiser pilot or technology obsessed engineer? A Class sets out what job the character does in the team and gives the Skills and equipment the Character starts with. Attributes are the natural properties of the Character, such as how strong they are, how quick they can run or how clever they are. 
The Deviant represents the personality of the Character, whether they are flamboyant or withdrawn, patient or restless and so on. The Skills are a list of things that the Character can do. They include flying Grav vehicles, mending weapons or bartering in a street market. Body records their physique and how much damage the Character takes before it loses a limb or even dies. Psychotheatrics are randomly rolled advantages and disadvantages and are optional.
All this information is written down on Character Sheets. You can find these at the back of this book. You will learn how to fill the Character sheets in the following sections.
Character sheet one (top) contains the Attributes, the Deviant wheel and close combat fighting combos as well as place of birth and credits (cash).
Character sheet two (middle) has equipment and Psychotheatrics on the left and skills on the right.
Character sheet three (bottom) shows the body and armour. This sheet is folded down the middle and contains discs for writing the number of hits the Character can take in each location, how tough they are and how much stun they can take.
Within the following sections, the new Character will be made to demonstrate all the steps. The example Character will be created for the Scavenger Setting, included later in this book.
Step 1: Concept
Concept is the overall description and definition of the Character. The concept defines who the Character is and how they might react in certain situations. The concept may be based on a character from a film or book. The concept is not recorded on the Character sheet as it is used only for the initial creation.
A Character concept should make sense in the setting you are going to be playing. Each setting provides some examples of concepts to use as inspiration. Some concepts are more appropriate for a setting, just ask your Gamesmaster. 
For example, an anarchistic Character does not fit well in a military setting where rules are there to keep you alive.
A good way to quickly make a concept is to take two Characters from film or TV and join them together to make something more interesting. The result will normally need a little adjustment to fit into the Icar universe.
Example. Take Johnny Mnemonic and Neil from The Young Ones. A ruthless corporate man, who eats purely organic food and has a deep love for furry animals and flowers.
If in doubt then cliché
If you are still stuck on a Character concept and you are being hurried to decide, then choose a cliché, such as a rogue smuggler (Han Solo from Star Wars). New players should avoid playing Characters that are quiet, withdrawn or anti-social. It is much easier to play Icar if you Character is keen on friendship with the other Characters and wants to speak!
Do not worry if your concept is not perfect, as the Character experiences different things its personality (or Deviant), Skills and motivations will change. If you do not start with the Character your would like, you can always change it.
Our example Character, John Smith, will use one of the given concepts in the Scavenger Setting (found later). Below is the example Character concept.
Class
A class is a package of starting Skills, equipment and background that needs to be chosen alongside the concept. Classes are roughly equivalent to classes in other systems. It’s best to think of a concept first and then choose a class but experienced players might prefer selecting both at the same time. 
Classes can be found in the Setting your Gamesmaster is going to run, there are no generic Icar Classes as Icar. If no Skeleton exists for your Character concept, then use ones from the Setting as a guide and suggest your own to the Gamesmaster.
Step 2: Deviant
The Deviant is the personality of the Character and suggests what the Character might do in any situation. The Deviant of the Character is recorded in the Deviant wheel. The wheel is made from a number of personality traits. Opposite traits are on opposite sides of the wheel. For example, on one side is Selfish, on the other is Generous. You’ll find the deviant wheel on the front Character sheet.
To fill in the Deviant wheel, go around to each of the traits and colour in up to 5 of the boxes. Both sides of the wheel must add up to 5. If you have 5 in Fiery, then you have 0 in Calm. Below shows an example Deviant Wheel. Only one trait is filled in.
Tip: Pick two or three traits you know you would like to play, colour them in up to four and colour in their opposites at one. Then all the others, either colour them in as 3 and 2 or leave them blank and fill them in as you play the Character.
Let’s take a look at the Deviant wheel for our example Character, John Smith. It’s filled in for a generally nice person who is a bit naive and is easily excitable.
Tip: When creating the Deviant wheel, try to pick two to four traits that you think best describe your Character. Make those traits 4 and 5 and then set the rest of the wheel to traits of 2 or 3. Concentrating on a couple of strong personality traits is much easier when you start to play Icar.
In general, pleasant Character traits (generous, honest, forgiving) are on the right hand side of the wheel, and unpleasant traits (selfish, vengeful, dishonest) are on the left.
Don’t worry if you don’t get it correct to begin with as Deviant wheel can be changed using Roleplaying Points. This accounts for the Character’s personality changing as they experience life changing events. 
Do not be bound by the Deviant wheel, it is there as a guide to help you keep the Character’s decisions consistent. There might be times when the event is so life changing that the Character may react outside of their normal personality. In those cases, you might consider using that event as a reason to change the Character’s personality.
Step 3: Attributes
Attributes are the physical and mental properties of the Character. There are five Attributes in Icar: Battle, Shift, Meat, Soul and Wit. 
Each Attribute on a scale of 1 to 5. A value of 1 is human lowest and 5 is the human maximum. The human average is 2. 
If the Character becomes augmented with bionics, then Attributes can go beyond 5.
All Attributes begin at 1 and then you spend points to increase them in the same way that you do for Roleplaying Points. You have 20 Roleplaying Points to spend, check the Roleplaying Points section XXXXXXXXXXXXXX.
Quick Attribute Assignment
Rather than working out each of the levels and spending up your points, you could assign one of the following groups of values to your Attributes. They add up to 20 Roleplaying points: 4,3,2,2,2 or 3,3,3,1 or 5,2,2,1.
Battle
Battle is the ability of the Character to fight. This includes physical ability as well as natural prowess in combat. It is mostly used for close combat fighting but is also used for deciding initiative. Battle does not cover how hard you hit something, just how well you do it. 
Having a Battle of 1 means you fight like a flailing child. A Battle of 5 means you are more lethal than Bruce Lee.
Meat
Meat is Character’s toughness. It controls how much they can carry (see Encumbrance later), how hard they can hit something, how many hits they can take before passing out (see Stun later), how resistant they are to poisons (such as alcohol) and how physically large they are. 
Having a Meat of 1 means you are an under-developed weakling; 5 a huge body-builder.
Shift
Shift controls the  quickness of the character.  This includes how far the character can move, how dexterous they are and the likelihood of having the upper hand in a fight. 
Multiple your Shift by 8 to find the furthest you can move in a turn in metres. This should be only an indicator as combat is more fluid than taking measurements will allow.
Soul
Soul is a measure of the Character’s life force and mental strength. A low Soul is easily frightened and has trouble dealing with gory or bloody scenes. A high Soul recognises their fear but is not driven by it. 
Failing a Soul check can lead the Character into a blind panic. Passing a Soul check can mean the Character does not blurt out the location of the money stash. A panicking Character isn’t able to perform any useful action and you should roleplay a panic stricken character to freeze, run amok or act irresponsibly.
Tip: If you want to play a bionic character then it pays to have a high Soul to start with as you spend the Soul to become bionic.
Wit
Wit is the measure of intelligence and the ability to spot things. A high Wit is likely to notice details and will have more divine inspiration (hints from the GM). 
A low Wit is unlikely to notice even the most obvious indications and will have difficulty reasoning logically. This can be useful to you because you can use a low Wit to do things that are fun and not necessarily a good idea.
Classes and Attributes
Some classes included in the Setting have recommended Attribute values. These suggest that for a given class, the Wit should be over 4 or Meat over 5. The aim of this is to help the finished Character survive. 
A combat based Character with a low Battle statistic will find it difficult to fulfil their concept. This might be intentional and that’s why these Attributes are only recommendations.
Step 4: Skills
Skills are learnt abilities. Where Attributes make up the natural physical description of the Character, the Skills represent the learnt abilities. A Character is likely to learn a great many Skills and is likely to change their role in the game. Skills are also easier to improve than Attributes, although both can be improved by taking an active role in the game. The Skills are jotted down on Character sheet two, included at the back of this book.
Assigning Points to Skills
All the Skills included in your chosen class begin at 1 for free. You can then use 10 points to increse these skills with 1 point per level (as you do spending Roleplaying Points).
Tip: You may not raise a Skill of a higher Epoch higher than the Skills it depends on, see Skill Trees on page 6.
Roleplaying and Skills
Skills should be used along with role-playing. Before rolling a for a Skill, describe the action as best you can. A good description of the Skills application may make your GM lower your difficulty roll. If the Skill is performing some acrobatic feat, then the twists and turns through the air should be described. If the Skill involves haggling a deal, then try to haggle. The GM is not looking for the best dealer or acrobat in the world, just some effort in description as this effort adds richness to the game for everyone.
There are a few instances where this does not apply (such as fast fire fights where shooting lots of guns needs to be performed quickly).
Skill Epochs and Trees
Skills are organised into trees that grow from left to right. Here’s the Skill Tree that begins with Grav Pilot (all the trees can be found in the Appendix).

Every Skill has an Epoch. An Epoch of 1 means that the Skill does not depend on any other. For example above, Grav Pilot does not depend on any other Skill.
Skills of Epochs 2 and above can only be bought after the Skills of a lower Epoch have been bought first. For example, Spacecraft Pilot requires Grav Pilot and Zero g Ops first.
A Skill of a higher Epoch cannot have a value larger than the lower Epoch. 
For example, if Grav Pilot has a value of 3, Zero g Ops can only go as high as 3, it cannot be 4. If you have Zero g Ops at 3 and you want to raise it, you must raise Grav Pilot to 4 first.
Skills Example: John Smith
Now we add Skills to our example character, John Smith. The class we chose at the start was Scavenger Engineer. All these skills start with 1 point for free. 
We want John Smith to be really good with space craft. Spacecraft comes under Macromechanics (3rd Epoch). We will need to put points into Physics and Astromechanics too. We have 10 points to spend.
Law 				1
History 			1
Biology 			1
Physics 			1 + 3 = 4
Zero-G Operations		1 + 1 = 2
Grav Pilot			1
Micro Engineering		1
Astromechanics		1 + 3 = 4
Macro Engineering		1 + 3 = 4
Artificial Intelligence		1
Hacking			1
When flying an Orbihaul, John will be using Grav Pilot (1) with his Shift attribute (3). Having a skill of 1 means that he can fly fine but if he wants to do anything interesting then he will need to get to a target number of 12. He starts on 4 (3 + 1) so he needs 8 or more on a D10 to succeed.
When fixing the Botchery Clipper, John will be using Wit (4) and  Macro Engineering (4). When fixing something in a short amount of time or under stress, the target number will be 12 and as he starts on 8 (4 + 4), he only needs a 4 or more.
The skills are all found on the second character sheet.
Step 5: Character Information
It is detail that brings a character to life and that life makes the character more interesting to play. Name, age, place of birth, class and an image. You do not have to be an artist to have a cool character image, instead plunder the internet!
Name
This is the name of the character. It’s best to choose a name from within your own culture. From a white, British perspective, names such as ‘Adam Williamson’, ‘Simon Aubury’ are common. 
Avoid using names of characters from films unless you want to parody that character. Within Human Occupied Space, people often have only one word for a name, feel free to experiment.
Akarakian names (if you are playing one) tend to have the syllable sounding ‘ak’ somewhere in the name. Zealot Akarakians often have ‘ax’ instead.
Age
Better genetics and medicines mean a long life and over 90,000 years the human race has managed to nearly double the average life span of what it was in the 21st Century. 
Each setting and class will have recommended ages, experience is gained through living life, not necessarily getting older.
increases with age. This is just only recommendations, so feel free to discuss with the GM any ideas you might have. 
Age Comparison Table
21st Century Age	Icar - 921st Century Age	Rough Description
0	0	Birth
12	8	Start of puberty
18	12	End of puberty
21	18	Physical peak
26	50	Onset of weight gain and ‘middle aged spread’
35	70	Middle age (hair loss, etc.)
40	85	Greying hair
65	110	Retirement age
75	140	Average life expectancy
85	150	‘Good’ life expectance
125	180	Oldest non-augmented human
N/A	320	Oldest augmented human

Place of Birth
This facet of the Character is very much dependent on the setting that is being run. Within the setting, there will be a list of places that are eligible for your place of birth. The character’s home will colour their point of view and experiences. Try and tie in the place of birth with your character concept.
Class and Setting
This is simply the name of the class the character is made from the setting document. The setting is the name of the campaign setting your GM is running. In John Smith’s case, this is the Scavenger Setting.
Step 6: Hit Points
This section determines the physical state of the Character. Hit Points are the number of points of damage that your character can take before they are incapacitated. Incapacitated means that you need urgent medical attention or your character will die.
A human starts with 10 Hit Points.
Starting with Bionics
If your character begins with Bionics then the Hit Points will come straight from the Bionics attributes.
Step 7: Close Combat Combos XXXX
Close Combat Combos (Combos) are chains of fighting manoeuvres that the character can perform. Although every character can punch and kick someone, to chain them together in a flow needs practise and the result of that practise is a close combat combo. 
Combo building is covered in the Close Combat rules. XXXXXX
The Combos are written in the bottom right of Character sheet one. You can spent Roleplaying Points (RP) to buy new Combos. 
Step 9: Roleplaying Points
Roleplaying Points (RP) are awarded for roleplaying a consistent, believable character and for experiencing the world around them.
Roleplaying points are then spent to change the personality and improve attributes and skills.
It is quite normal for the Character you start with to be completely different in personality and strengths when you finish playing. 
RP is recorded on a disc on Character Sheet one underneath the Deviant Wheel. You might also like to keep a running total in this disc so that you can see how much you have spent on your character in the campaign.
When To Spend RP
Your Gamesmaster might decide to hand out RP at the end of the session or as the session is being played. Whenever the Gamesmaster gives you RP, you may spend it.
Roleplaying Point UsesCost	Effect
1	Alter as much of the Deviant Wheel as you please. This should be justified with the rest of the group and GM. For example, after you go through a harrowing ordeal.
1	Buy a new Skill
1	Increase a Skill by 1. See XXXXX
*	Buy a Combo, the cost is the same as the Combo difficulty.
*	Raise an Attribute. The cost is the new value of the Attribute. If your Attribute is 2 then to raise to 3, you must pay 3.
10	Choose an existing Psychotheatric and roll again on the table. You must accept the new Psychotheatric.

Step 10: Psychotheatrics
By now, the Character has already taken shape, all that is left now is to add quirks of personality that are selected at random. Psychotheatrics are determined in the following way (and found in the Appendix).
1. The Player states how many Psychotheatrics are going to be added to the Character. The player may choose up to three, no more. Up to three is number of the Psychotheatrics. 5 is right out. Once the number is decided, the player must stick with it.
2. The player rolls a D100 for each Psychotheatric in turn, dealing with each separately.
3. Any alterations to the Deviant wheel or Attributes must now be made.
Psychotheatrics and the Deviant Wheel
There may be cases where the Psychotheatric conflicts with the way in which the character’s Deviant is created. In this case the Psychotheatric wins and the Deviant Wheel must be altered. If two Psychotheatrics are opposing then the earlier Psychotheatric is used and the second roll is to be re-rolled. No Attribute may go below 1 but can be raised over the cap of 5.
The Psychotheatric is there to pour colour onto the character and give complacent players a challenge.
Weaving the Tale
The Psychotheatrics should fit into the background the character has. A certain amount of weaving or fitting in must be done make the Psychotheatric work. The GM should read the Psychotheatric before reading it out to the player. Some of the information is the Psychotheatric may need to be withheld from the player.
If the GM feels a Psychotheatric would break the character  (especially given the Setting) then they should ask them to re-roll.
Do not be worried if you roll poorly, you can buy off Psychotheatrics (see below) and it can be great fun to play a character with truly terrible Psychotheatrics. Before you spend RP, give it your best shot.
Buy off Pyschotheatrics
Pyschotheatrics can be replaced by spending 10 RP. Choose the Psychotheatric you no-longer want and roll D100 for a new one.  You have to take a new one if you are buying off an old one. You keep the Attribute and Skill affects of the previous Psychotheatric but not the flavour text.
This should not be done lightly. The mental affect or problem represented by the Psychotheatric must be accounted for in game. 
Example: If you are Hunted then you must confront and stop the killer before buying off the Psychotheatric. If you are a Psychopath, then you must go through psychotherapy or live through a life-changing event to change your psyche.
The Core Mechanic
When your character is faced with something that is out of the ordinary, you are going to roll some dice to find out if they pass or fail. The higher the value of your Attributes and Skills, the more chance you have to succeed. The Core Mechanic is how you find out if you pass. It is used in the different types of combat and when doing actions. 
It works like this:
Skill + Attribute + Bonuses + D10 must be equal to or larger than Difficulty.
By default, the difficulty is 12. The GM will begin by asking for a specific Skill. The player will then negotiate an Attribute to use with the Skill. The character might be using equipment that will give them a small bonus. The player then rolls a D10 and the total is compared to a target number match or beat the target number and the player is successful!
If the player doesn’t have a Skill then that’s OK, just use the Attribute and D10.
Example: John Smith is trying to open an airlock to gain entry into a wreck. The GM says that there is no power to the door, so it is not Hacking but a Macro Engineering Skill (4). John’s player says that he’ll take his time and use Wit Attribute (4). He is using his Tech Kit (1). It’s a normal action so the target number is 12. John’s player rolls a D10, gets a 5. His total is 14, which is a pass. The airlock slides smoothly open.
Example: John Smith is trying to force open a spacecrate plastered with warning stickers. The GM says that the Skill required is Hacking (1) because there is power on. John’s player is going carefully, so uses his Wit Attribute (4). He doesn’t have any Hacking tools to give a bonus. It’s a normal action, so the target number is 12. John’s player rolls a D10 and gets a 6, which gives a total of 11, which is a fail. Something inside the crate wakes up.
Example: John Smith is desperately trying to restart the engines of the Orbihaul in a panic to escape a monster robot that has just burst from a crate. The GM says that it is Macro Engineering (4). John’s player wants to use Wit but the GM says that everyone is panicking so he must choose another. John Smith’s player choose to use brute force repair the engine. They agree that it’s a Meat Attribute (2) and that he can use a wrench from his Tech Kit to help (1). The target number is 12. John’s player rolls a 5, giving a total of 12, which is a pass (only just!). The engine splutters into life and the Orbihaul pulls away from the wreck.
Setting the Target Number
The GM gets to choose the target number depending on how difficult the action is.
Difficulty Level Table
Difficulty	Number
Easy	10
Normal	12
Hard	16
Impossible!	22

Critical Failure and Success
On a roll of 1, the character always fails. On a roll of 10, they always pass. These are called criticals and when they happen then the players get to decide what happens. In failure then it should be the worst possible outcome. In success then there can be added benefits 
Humorous descriptions should roleplaying points.
Optional: The Shared Dice Pool
At the start of the game, put a pot or hat in the middle of the table with a bunch of D10s equal to the number of players. When the players roll a D10, they can choose to pick a die from the hat to add to their total. The player can choose to keep doing this until the dice run out.
Any remaining dice at the end of the game get turned into roleplaying points, shared out between the players.
This makes the game a little easier but adds an element of co-operation for the players.
Combat
There are four types of combat in Icar: Close Combat (hand-to-hand), Fire Fighting (ranged weapons), Vehicle combat and Space combat. Initiative is used to determine who goes first and then players take turns. 
For all of these combat types, distance is measured by metres. This is used for ranges and movement rates. Time is split into Turns. Each turn is 3 seconds and a player may make spend that turn doing whatever action they like (providing it is possible). 
Example: John Smith wins the initiative, draws his weapon first, rolls dice first and splatters the adversary’s right arm all over the wall. The adversary has one glove too many and doesn’t get to shoot.
Turn Actions
A Turn is three seconds. In some cases, a Character can do many different quick tasks in this time. Here is a list of actions which can be performed in a turn.
Turn Action Table
Action	Effect
Move	Move up to 4 times your Shift Attribute in metres.
Change Magazine	Put a new Magazine into a weapon.
Change Weapon	Select a new weapon and stow previous weapon.
Recover Stun	A Character will recover 10 Stun points if the Character remains inactive.
Get into / out of vehicle	As suggested.
Say one thing	Along with an action, a Character may utter one thing.
Turn on shield	Free! Does not take a turn but a shield can be raised in a turn.
Use Close Combat Combo	Execute a close combat combo against one or more opponents
Fire weapon	Fire up to the rounds per turn (R/T) for the weapon.  If less, state how many

Entering Combat
When a combat begins, the GM will follow these steps:
1. State that combat has started. Announce the start of the combat turn.  Make sure all players are aware that combat has begun, otherwise they may be in a vulnerable state.
2. Describe the situation. (Or who is doing what). This allows each player to be certain of what situation their Character is in. You might like to draw crosses on the map to show where you are.
3. Roll for initiative. This gives an order of play. Initiative = SHIFT + BATTLE + D10.
4. Players take turns. Highest initiative goes first.
The Turn Sequence
There are different turn sequences for each type of combat.  Once a combat sequence is complete, the GM will announce that the combat turn is over. 
Healing
If you can step out of the fight, spend a moment shaking the haze away then you regain 1 Stun per turn. A medic (successful Medicine Skill check) with a medkit hypo can bring you back to half your maximum stun.
Healing without being treated by a medic is slow. You must be resting to regain 1 hit point a day. Your character can still do things but they must be not hard work or stressful to let the body repair.
A medic can heal hit points up to their Skill in Medicine once a day. Medic kits give a better chance of success. A fully equipped medical facility can heal at least an extra 10 per day.
When you run out of Stun or Hit Points
When your Stun is 0 then you are unconscious. Your Stun can go below 0, which means that you will be asleep for that many turns (see Healing below).
When your hit points hit 0 then you have 2 minutes to live. As long as your brain is intact you can be saved. If you’re vaporised, then sorry, you’re just dead. Within those 2 minutes a medic (successful Medicine Skill check) can stabilise you. The medic can have up to 10 attempts to succeed.
Bits blown off 
If the narrative demands that parts of the body are destroyed beyond repair then you must seek bionics. Organs can be regrown but whole limbs cannot. See the bionics section for more details.
Star Civilisation Medical AI
Star Civilisation have a medical Artificial Intelligence that can help over Gaia. The service is free to use and gives +2 on any Medical skill roll. See Star Civ Healthcare on page 31.
Shields
Shields are an energy field that drains the enegy from things hitting it. It only stops high energy objects.
A sheild has Hit Points, which is the damage it can stop in a single combat turn. At the start of the next turn, its Hit Points return.
If a shield takes more damage than it has hit points in a single turn then it shuts down at the end of the turn, taking all the damage that hits it. While a shield is on, no damage hits the user. 
A shut down shield can only be restarted after 60 seconds and with a Micro Engineering skill check.
Bigger shield systems can have multiple shields. This means that when one shield goes down, another shield pops up in its place immediately. 
Close Combat
When you’re near enough to smell their fear, that’s Close Combat. You can always hit someone once in a turn like any other action but it’s more fun to chain moves together in a Combo. By default you use the Battle attribute with your Skill check but that’s negotiable, depending on the situation (see swapping out Attributes).
Hitting once
To hit another character once: perform a Skill check using Street Fighting and Battle. If you surprise the enemy then the target number is 12. If they know you’re coming then the highest roll wins. The loser loses stun, the amount being the winner’s Meat attribute. 
Without warning, Byrnie punches Simon squarely in the face. His Street Fighting is 1 and his Battle attribute is 3. To hit Simon, Byrnie needs a total of 12, so he rolls a D10, gets a 9 and adds his Street Fighting Skill and Battle attribute. That adds up to 13 (9 + 1 + 3), which is more than 12 so he hits Simon. He is not carrying any weapons so Simon takes 3 stun (which is Byrnie’s Meat attribute).
In the next round, Byrnie and Simon try and hit each other at the same time. They are not using Combos, just bashing each other. They’re now in a proper fight, so they are going to roll against each other. Byrnie rolls 5, giving him a total of 9 (5 + 3 + 1) Simon’s Street Fighting is 2 and his Battle attribute is 4 and rolls 4, giving him a total of 10 (2 + 4 + 4). Simon wins so Byrnie must remove stun equal to Simon’s Meat attribute, which is 4 points.
If you are holding just about anything and want to hit someone once then perform a Street Fighting and Battle skill check and do Meat damage and Meat stun.
Later Simon sneaks up behind Byrnie with a table leg and hits him over the back of the head. Simon’s Battle attribute is 4 and Street Fighting is 2. He needs a 12 to hit Byrnie and rolls 6. His total is 12 (6 + 4 + 2) so he hits Byrnie. Byrnie removes 4 stun (Simon’s Meat attribute) and because Simon is holding a table leg, he removes 4 hit points too. The Gamesmaster tells Byrnie that he’s bleeding from a nasty gash on his head.
Combos
A Combo is a series of moves that your character can perform in a flow such as Headbutt, Punch, Trip, Stamp. If you have the Street Fighting Skill of 1 or higher then you can spend roleplaying points to build Combos. A Combo does damage to hit points and stun and in turn has a difficulty. The more damage and stun your Combo does, the more difficult it will be to execute. Some moves can have extra benefits, such as knocking the weapon from the other’s hand. 
Using a Combo
When it comes to your turn, you choose one of your combos from your list of Combos. You must verbally describe your Combo before rolling a die. If you forget, the Combo fails automatically. Then roll a skill check using Street Fighting and Battle and subtracting the Combo difficulty. The enemy you are fighting removes the Combo’s damage from their hit points and the stun from their stun. The default target number for NPCs is 10.
Street Fighting + Battle - Difficulty + D10 = 10 or more.
“I’m going to hit the Star Enforcer with Combo 1: punch, trip, stamp. Difficulty is 1.” said Byrnie and rolls the D10. Although he rolls a 10, he loses the round because there was no description first.
“I am going use kick the Star Enforcer in the groin, then I’m going to push him over the fence to trip, jump over myself and stamp on his face.”. Combo #1, which is Punch, Trip, Stamp and has a difficulty of 2.
Using a Combo Against Another Player Character
If two player characters are fighting, or perhaps a player character is fighting a Non-Player-Character important enough to have their own Combos, then the winner is the character with the highest score. Critical pass (rolling 10) or fail (rolling 1) are automatic success or failure. The the totals are equal then roll again. Roll initiative to find out who chooses their Combo first; lowest chooses and narrates their Combo first.
Street Fighting + Battle - Difficulty + D10
“While running, I’m going to barge into Simon and stamp on his groin twice. Using Combo 2, difficulty 2.” said Byrn.
“Seeing him come in, I’m going to bring him to a halt by headbutting three times. Using Combo 3, difficulty 3.” said Simon.
Byrn and Simon roll D10s, Byrn’s rolls 5, his total is 7 (1 + 3 - 2 + 5). Simon rolls 3, his total is 6 (2 + 4 - 3 + 3).
Byrn’s narration wins and Simon is left on the floor!
Trip and Hold
“Trip” makes an enemy prone (lying on the floor). In the next round, the enemy must make a Street Fighting with Shift opposed skill check (or use the Spring to Feet swap move). “Hold” means the enemy cannot move until their break free using Street Fighting and Meat. You can Combo against the foe who is prone or held, if they pass their standing up or breaking free check then your Combo will fail.
To struggle free from a Trip and a Hold (being pinned down on the ground) then you must roll a Hard difficulty Street Fighting skill check with Meat or Shift.
Swapping out Attributes
The attribute you use can be negotiated with the GM before the dice are rolled. Any attribute can be married with a fighting skill if the player is persuasive enough and it is decided before dice are rolled. In the example above, Simon could have used his Shift attribute of 4 because headbutting someone running at you is more a matter of dexterity than fighting prowess.
Using Weapons in Combos
To use a weapon in a Combo you need to have a good enough skill. For hand weapons, you need Street Fighting at level 2 and higher. For using a firearm (pistol, rifle or sub-machinegun) in close quarters then you need Gun Fu at level 1. The damage and stun you do is listed on the weapon if you’re firing it or if you’re using it just to hit someone then use the Meat of the character.
Humans versus Augs
Humans are puny compared to those with bionic augmentation (Augs). Augs can choose to do damage with their Combos, the damage being the same as the stun. As Augs have a higher Meat attribute, they do more damage, have moresStun and regain stun quicker. Humans should avoid getting into a fight with an Aug at all costs. The same can be said for fighting with people in powered armour and insane automatons.
> EXAMPLE! XXXXXXXXXXXXXXX NEEDS BIONICS FIRST
Using Advanced Close Combat Skills
Street Fighting covers the majority of fighting scenarios but there is also Gun Fu (close quarters gun play) and Akarak Art (like martial arts but much tougher). No matter where the moves come from, you always use your Street Fighting skill.
Swap Moves
As you improve in Street Fighting, Gun Fu and Akarak Art, you get the ability to improvise by swapping out moves in your Combo. Swap moves are not permenant, only for that combo use. Add the Swap Move difficulty on top of the existing Combo difficulty, even though you are replacing one of your moves. You can only swap one move in a turn (until you reach Akarak Art at level 3). You can build swap moves in a Combo normally if you wish. 
The simplest swap that anyone can do is a Hold (requires Street Fighing level 1).
Simon wants to headbutt Byrn three times again. Byrn is fed up with Simon headbutting him. Byrn takes his Punch, Trip, Stamp combo and replaces Trip with Hold and says “I want to punch him in the face and then as he’s reeling, grab him round the shoulders.” The Stamp move won’t happen because Hold ends the Combo. 
Hold has a difficulty of 1 added to the Combo’s difficulty of 2. Byrn rolls a D10 and gets an 8, his total is 9 (1 + 3 - 3 + 8). This beats Simon’s roll. Simon will need to pass an opposed Meat check next turn to break free.
Combos and swap moves can become quite complex and specific to a situation. When a player chooses their swap moves, they are responsible for understanding what they are going to say in the narrative. If they cannot  describe it in a way that others can understand then they cannot use it.
Take the Gun Fu based Combo: Puppet, Reload, Reverse, Dismantle has the narrative “Grab hold of the enemy with a gun and shoot their friend with it, reload it, shoot them with it and then dismantle it.” This means that the weapon will have fired twice in a single turn but it’s an expensive Combo, so let the player enjoy it if they pass!
How to Build a Combo
First you need to know what you want to achieve from your Combo in terms of difficulty, coolness or achieving a goal. For example, you might start with an easy Combo that just punches someone as many times as you can (which is free!). You might also have one that leaves the opponent prone.
To build the Combo, choose the moves from the Combo table below, adding up Stun, Damage and Difficulty. You can have as many moves in your Combo as your Battle attribute. Each move has a skill requirement (except punch). Use Roleplaying Points to buy the Combo, the cost is the same as its difficulty.
Put your completed Combo on the front page of your character sheet with the Stun, Damage and Difficulty. You can have 6 Combos. If you run out of room and want to replace a Combo then you can but you can’t edit a Combo that’s already there.
Pre-Built Example Combos
The Combos below are designed for a Battle attribute of 3 and Street Fighting and Gun Fu of 5.
“I’m going to barge him over and stamp on his head twice.”
Leaves the enemy prone.
Trip, Stamp, Stamp. Difficulty: 1. Stun: Meat x 2. Damage: 0. 
“I’m going to get really close, headbutt him, knee him in the groin and then uppercut into his face.”
Headbutt, Kick, Punch. Difficulty: 2. Stun: Meat x 3. Damage: Meat. Good for starting fights.
“I’m going to kick him back up to the table, push him over it and as he tumbles onto the floor slam my heel into his chest.”
Kick, Trip, Stamp. Difficulty: 2. Stun: Meat x 3. Damage: 0. Great for a bar fight.
“I’m going to pick up the leg from the broken table and keep hitting him while screaming.”
Strike, Strike, Strike. Difficulty: 3. Stun: Meat x 3. Damage: Meat x 3.
Fighting More Than One Foe
If you want to fight two people then pick a Combo for each foe (it can be the same for each) and roll a skill check with a -2 difficulty for each additional foe. Two foes -2, three foes -4, four foes -6 and so on.
Byrn has won the initiative against Simon and Gideon. “I’m going to kick Simon in the groin and then the face (Kick, Kick) and I’m going to reach out and punch Gideon in the stomach and face twice (Punch, Punch).” Byrn will need to roll once for each Combo add an extra -2 difficulty onto each roll.
Close Combat Skills
DO I MOVE THIS? XXXXXXXXXXXXX
Street Fighting
Fisticuffs and brawling in the human tradition of getting stuck in with foot and fist.
Level 1: Can build Combos. Moves: Punch, Stamp. Swap Moves: Hold.
Level 2: Moves: Kick, Headbutt. Swap Moves: Disarm.
Level 3: Moves: Strike. Swap Moves: Spring onto feet, break free.
Level 4: Moves: Spinning Kick. Swap Moves: Hold Reverse.
Gun Fu
Your firearm is an extension of your arm. Kick the weapon from the hands of your enemy, reload it and shoot them with it in a single flow.
Level 1: Moves: Fire. Swam Moves: Quick Draw
Level 2: Moves: Puppet. Swam Moves: Rearm.
Level 3: Moves: Dismantle. Swam Moves: Reload
Level 4: Moves: Reverse.
Akarak Art
Performed by bionic warrior monks, Akarak Art uses the principal of the world flowing from one stream to another. Imagination, rhythm and concentration combined with bionics lets the fighter slow the world down around them. All the Akarak Art moves are Swap Moves.
Level 1: Knock out
Level 2: Push Clear
Level 3: Improvise
Level 4: Undress, The Flow




Firefighting
Fire fighting deals with the use of firearms. It is assumed that all fire fights happen simultaneously and initiative is merely used to allow the more combat aware to see what happens to everything else before making their decision.
Firearms
In Icar, weapons are not written down on part of the Character sheet but are included as handouts (folded paper into cards) and then kept with the Character sheet. This removes confusion about what the Character is carrying. If the player does not have the sheet, they do not have the weapon. On the next page is the Nelson H1 from the Equipment Index, please refer to this as an example. You can download the handouts in the Equipment Index and print as needed.
For quick reference, a list of weapons with their pictures is included in the technology section but it is highly recommended to use the hand-outs as they contain more information about the weapon and extra features.
Photo and Name
The picture shows a representation of the weapon with its name.
Features
Here are the important features of the weapon. Not really statistics but other information of use. Typically this place holds the following:
1. Cost. If bought New from a regular dealer.
2. Type of weapon (Light or Heavy). Tells you which Skill to use.
3. Rarity (a percentage). A GM will roll over this number to see if a dealer has one in stock. Lower is more common.
4. Additional Features. These are accompanied with a heading and a description. Things such as ‘Grav Balancing ‘are additional features. For descriptions of what these technologies mean, see the Technology section.
5. Stock Options. Some weapons are so versatile that the manufacturer may create them with possible additions straight from the factory. These come with a tick box, a price and a rarity (if different from the rarity of the weapon).
Note
Either used for further pictures or options or for a brief history and description for the weapon.
Statistics
These are split into three sections, Range Discs, Weapon Statistics and Ammo. 
Range Discs. On the outer edge of the range discs are the modifiers for this weapon at Short (S), Medium (M) and Long (L) ranges. Add this value to your Light (or Heavy) firing Skill and add the number in the centre of the ring. A positive modifier is signified by a coloured in (black) shape and a negative modifier is signified by an outline shape.
For example, if your Character has a Skill in Light Firing at 85%, then Short Range will be 95% and both medium and long will be at 85%.

Statistics. The table of numbers tell you the physical attributes the weapon has. How each number is used is detailed later.
The acronyms stand for: Weapon The type of technology the weapon uses to fire. BF Blast factor, how good the weapon is at penetrating armour. Damage The damage done by each round fired. R/T Rounds fired each turn. 
Ammo the type of ammunition fired. Mag Magazine. 
The Turn Sequence
Begin Fire Fight
Fire Fight combat is entered into if the combatants fire weapons. The GM must state what targets there are, at what range they are and whether they are moving or in cover.
Roll Initiative
Each combatant, whether they be NPC or player, rolls for initiative:
Initiative = Battle + Shift + D10
The lower initiative, is the worse combatant and thus must decide what to do first, without having seen the outcome of everyone else’s actions.
State Target and Number of Rounds to Fire
The player (or NPC) states the target that she is shooting at and the number of rounds she wishes to fire. The number of rounds fired can not exceed the R/T value of the weapon.
Roll Dice to Hit
Player rolls a percentile (D100 or %). This must be less than number on the corresponding range disc. The ranges are listed below. If the player is throwing a Grenade, they can do so up to Short Range and roll Shift to hit.
Weapon Ranges
Range	Distance (in Metres)
Short	Up to 50m
Medium	51-500m
Long	501m+

If Hits
The player must roll under the number on the relevant Range Disc. However there are modifiers, which make it difficult to hit. Add these modifiers to the difference between the roll and the number required to hit.
Example 1: If a player has a Skill of 70% and the weapon has a modifier of 30%, the total is 100. The player rolls 60, therefore a difference of 40. This difference then has modifiers added to it. The modifiers add up to -30%, leaving 10% difference, this is a hit.
Example 2: At long range, the modifier may only be 20%. The player requires a roll of 90 (Skill 70% + 20)  on a D100. The player rolls 90 and misses.
Example 3: At short range, the modifier is only 25%. The player requires a roll of 95 (Skill 70 + 25) on a D100. The player rolls 92. This is a difference of 3. Modifiers could quite easily make that shot a miss.
Hit Modifiers
Modifiers make hitting the target easier or more difficult. This is by no means an exhaustive list, if there are any circumstances which the GM thinks affects the situation then they too will be added.
Hit Modifier Table
Modifier	%	Usage
Target in Cover	-10	The target is obscured.
Target or Character  moving	-10	A Character may fire while moving if moving at walk.
Called Shot	-30	Player chooses body part to shoot at. You may not shoot at the head.
Aimed Previous Turn	+20	Character spent last turn aiming at the target.
Shot at target last turn	+10	Bonus for continually shooting at the same thing
Character Stunned	- (100 - stun)	If stun is below 100, then take the difference.
Shooting at more than one target	-20	If you shoot at more than one target in a turn, take off 20% for each target.


Example: John Smith fires a Raqax IIE at a foe at short range. His Skill is 95%, the Raqax short range modifier add 35% to the chance to hit. Therefore he needs to roll under 130% on a D100. He rolls 28. The difference is 102%! However Max has taken damage and has 50% (-50) stun. He is also firing while moving (-10) and the target is hiding behind a wall (In cover -10). This brings the difference down to a less impressive 32%. This is still a hit. 
Damaging the Target
The maximum damage done to the target is the Rounds fired multiplied by the Damage.
Damage Done = Rounds Fired x Damage
However, this damage is affected by the difference between the Blast Factor (BF) of the weapon and the Armour Rating (AR) of the Armour. The alteration is as follows:
1. If BF > AR then all damage is applied.
2. If BF <= AR then 1/10 damage is applied.
Stun is the measure of physical shock. Regardless of damage applied, a target takes the BF in stun. This rule does not apply to some forms of powered armour.
As you will note from the damage system, Icar is a deadly game. The best tactic is not to be shot at in the first place. If you are, make sure you are Augmented or Armoured or both.
Firing without a Skill
It’s not unknown for a Character to pick up a weapon and pull the trigger. In this case, use only the modifiers given with the weapon.
Example: For the Nelson H1, a Character without Light Firing would have to roll under 10 at short range. 
Firefight Example
John Smith, a Scavenger player character, meets a nearly-dead crew member of a wreck (an NPC). John is wearing a Moss Environment (EV) suit, the statistics for the suit are:
Moss EV Suit Statistics
AR	H	LA	T	RA	LL	RL	Stun
10	200	300	800	300	400	400	200

John is carrying a Nelson H1 with 3 rounds in the clip. He does not have the Light Firing skill, so will be using the default Nelson short range at +5. John’s Battle is 7 and his Shift is 5. We need that for initiative.
The NPC crew member is lying in the corner, one barely working arm and hit points only in his head and Torso. He is carrying a Havan 11 with a full magazine. He has a Light Firing of 55%. The NPC has a Battle of 6 and a Shift of 3 - his Shift is low because the GM says that he has been starved of oxygen.
Turn 1
Both roll initiative. John rolls 2, making his initiative 14 (7 + 5 + 2) and the NPC crew member rolls 4, making his initiative 13 (6 + 3 + 4).  John wins the initiative. The GM says that the NPC will be opening fire. John decides to jump behind a nearby doorway.
The NPC fires a full magazine at John. John is moving, so the NPC is at -30%. The NPC must roll under 30% (Skill 55 - 30 for John’s movement + 5 for the Havan 11 at short range). The GM rolls D100 for the NPC, rolling 44. 44 is larger than 30, so is a miss. The Havan 11 spits all 15 rounds over the corridor, bathing John in a shower of sparks! 
Turn 2
John still has the initiative. The GM says that the NPC is going to keep shoot. John would like to shoot back at the NPC but his chance of hitting is slim (10%), so he decides to spend the turn aiming from behind the bulk head. Aiming gives a +20 to a shot next turn.
The NPC has 10 rounds left in the magazine (15 of the 25 were fired). John is in cover, which gives a -10% modifier. However the NPC fired at John last turn, giving a +10%. The modifiers cancel out. The NPC needs 60% (55 Skill + 5 for Havan 11 at short range). The GM rolls 22, a hit.
The Havan 11 has a Blast Factor (BF) of 15, which is higher than John’s EV Armour Rating (AR) of 10, so John will be taking all damage. 10 rounds were fired, at 10 damage per round, making 100 damage (10 x 10 ). The GM rolls for a location and gets a 5 (Torso). 100 points of damage are done to John’s EV suit’s Torso, which has 800, leaving a comfortable 700. 
As the BF of the Havan 11 is 15, the hit also does 15 Stun, which is crossed off the suit’s 200.
Turn 3
The NPC has run out of ammunition in that clip and elects to spend the turn reloading. John now decides to fire the remaining 3 rounds in his clip, having been aiming for a turn. 
John needs less than 30 to hit (10 for the weapon and +20 for aiming). He rolls 21, which hits. The GM rolls for 4 for location, which is the Torso. The Blast Factor (BF) of the Nelson is 10, which is higher than the NPC’s body’s Armour Rating (AR) - clothing doesn’t count. 
36 points of damage are done to the  NPC’s Torso, leaving him on 4. The GM decides that the NPC is dead.
Dog Fighting
Dog Fighting is combat between vehicles. Grav Vehicles in Icar are all flying and they fight it out in the vertical warrens of Mex cities. Players choose manoeuvres, take risks and try and get into a firing position on the foe without flying into oncoming traffic, walkways or architecture. Dog fighting is not about the realistic portrayal about moving bodies in flight, it’s about zip, whoosh and bang.
Each vehicle combatant is considered as either offensive, defensive or in advantage. The defender is the person who is trying to dodge the attacker by trying to get advantage, the attacker is the one trying to shoot the defender. When both craft are in the advantage state, each one is trying to become attacker.
Example: John Smith is flying his Vulture on the way to a Croft. A rival crew attacks. The rival crew has the element of surprise so he becomes the attacker. John becomes the defender. At the start of next turn, John does a manoeuvre and the rival crew does not manage to stay on his tail. Both of them circle around the sky in advantage (neither of them able to attack or defend). Then John is able to take the attack and blows the rival’s car from under him.
Rounding and Resolution
Dog fighting requires you to reduce the resolution of the Combat Pilot Skill. This means turn a number that is normally out of 100 (like 69%) to a number which is out of 10 (like 6.9). 
First divide the number by 10, then round up if the decimal is ‘.5’ or more and down otherwise. Thus, 74 becomes 7.4 and (as the decimal, ‘.4’ is less than ‘.5’) it becomes 7. Also, 25 becomes 2.5 and then round to 3. If you prefer, truncate by cutting off the second number, 92 become 9 and 38 becomes 3. This greatly speeds up the process.
The Turn Sequence
Combat normally begins with both vehicles in advantage (unless one surprises the other). They both roll Advantage dice (Combat Skill + Vehicle Manoeuvring + D10) and the winner becomes the attacker. The loser becomes the defender. 
Then, at the end of the turn the attacker gets to fire. The next turn, the loser chooses a manoeuvre and each player rolls combat dice (Combat Skill + Vehicle Manoeuvring + Manoeuvre Modifier + D10). Then a simple table (below) is followed to see if the situation remains the same and the attacker fires again or if the manoeuvre succeeds and the players are placed into advantage again.
Dogfight Manoeuvre List
Name	Speed	DF	AT	Notes
Random Side Slip	Any	0	-1	
Sharp Turn	< 1/2 Max	-1	-2	
Throttle Slam	Not Max	0	-1	Increase speed by acceleration
Brake Hard	Not 0	-1	-2	Reduce speed by acceleration
Loop	> 1/2 Max	-1	-2	-10% to attacker’s next shot
Roll	Any	-1	-3	
Air brake	> 1/2 Max	-4	-3	Attacker may not fire next turn
Swoop	> 1/2 Max	-2	-3	Increase speed by acceleration. -10% to attacker’s shot
Feint and Dive	< 1/2 Max	-2	-4	May only be performed by Grav Bikes. If attacker is not Grav Bike, then may not fire.
Split ‘S’	< 1/2 Max	-3	-4	
3 Axis Tumble	< 1/2 Max	-2	-5	Next move must be a random side slip
Generator Power Dump	< /2 Max	-1	-4	Do 500 points of damage to vehicle
Aero Dynamo	Any	-3	-6	Do 500 points of damage to vehicle
Falrodding Manoeuvre	Any	*	*	Combat Pilot Skill only roll, biggest difference wins.
Evasion	*	-2	0	Defender’s speed must be greater than attackers!

Roll Combat Dice
This determines whether the manoeuvre is successful at removing the attacker from the tail of the defender and put them both into advantage.
Combat = Combat Skill + Vehicle Manoeuvre + Manoeuvre Modifier + D10
Check the Resolution Table
One the winner and looser have been decided, check the table below.
Attacker / Defender / Advantage Resolution Table
Attacker	Defender	Result
Win	Lose	Remain the same
Lose	Win	Got To Advantage
Win	Evade	Remain the same
Lose	Evade	Combat Ends

Evasion
This occurs when the defender chooses to evade the battle. If the defender manages to win with an evade manoeuvre. Then the battle ends. GM will roll dice to see if battle can be started again. This is often not the case.
End Of Combat
Combat can also end if one enemy is destroyed or the attacker wishes to stop. If the attacker wishes to stop then combat ends automatically. The attacker must specify that the combat will end before firing (essentially rolling the dice).
Example Dogfight
Here is an example dog fight. Note how all the mathematics is quite similar between each turn. For any combat the player’s Skill and the vehicle modifier are not going to change so these number can be added once and remembered.
The Dog fight concerned two pilots John Smith (Combat Grav Skill 80% = 8) and Bernard Black (Combat Grav Skill 55% = 6). John Smith is driving a Borealis with a mounted Chain Gun (Vehicle manoeuvring is +10 = 1) and Bernard Black is in a Star Enforcer Fortitude (Vehicle manoeuvring is +60 = 6). They arrive at the same moment (no one has the element of surprise) and go to Advantage.
Turn One - Roll Advantage Dice
Both roll a D10. John Smith rolls a 3, Bernard Black rolls 6.
ADVANTAGE = COMBAT Skill + VEHICLE MANOEUVRE + D10
John Smith Advantage = 8 + 1 + 3 = 12
Bernard Black Advantage = 6 + 6 + 6 = 18
Winner Becomes Attacker
Bernard is the winner. So Bernard becomes the attacker.
Attacker Fires
Bernard shoots using the Fortitude’s Pulse Laser. He lets off one shot, rolling D100. There are no Skill modifiers on this weapon so he needs to roll under his Skill of 65%. He rolls 94, so he misses.
Defender Chooses Manoeuvre
As John Smith is a good pilot, he chooses to do a 3 axis tumble. He checks that his speed is over 1/2 (which it is). He also notes that if he is defender again next turn, it must be a side slip. The 3 axis tumble has a manoeuvre modifier of -2.
Turn Two - Roll Combat Dice
Bernard must now try to stay on the tail of John so he can fire again. Both roll a D10. John rolls 9 and Bernard rolls a 4.
Combat = Combat Skill + Vehicle Manoeuvre + Manoeuvre Modifier + D10
John Smith Combat = 8 + 1 - 2 + 9 = 16
Bernard Black Combat = 6 + 6 - 5 + 4 = 11
Check Table
Last turn Bernard was the attacker and John was the defender. John won (as John’s total was the higher of the two) so using the table, they go to Advantage.
Roll Advantage Dice
Both roll a D10. John rolls a 2, Bernard rolls 8.
Advantage = Combat Skill + Vehicle Manoeuvre + D10
John Smith Advantage = 8 + 1 + 2 = 11
Bernard Black Advantage = 6 + 6 + 8 = 20
Winner Becomes Attacker
Bernard is the winner. So Bernard becomes the attacker again.
Attacker Fires Mounted Weapon
Bernard decides to fire 15 of the possible 50 rounds he can fire. He rolls a D100, trying to get under 65% (his Heavy Weapon Skill). He rolls 20, and hits, taking off 3000 points of damage from the John’s Borealis. John writes this figure in the top half of the hit points circle.
Defender Chooses Manoeuvre
John decides that the damage he has taken is too heavy to continue so he chooses to Evade, this counts as a Random Side Slip. His speed is larger than Bernard’s so he can evade if he succeeds the next roll. 
Turn Three - Roll Combat Dice
Bernard must now try to stay on the tail of John Smith so he can fire again. Both roll a D10. John rolls 7 and Bernard rolls a 1.
Combat = Combat Skill + Vehicle Manoeuvre + Manoeuvre Modifier + D10
John Smith Combat = 8 + 1- 2 + 7 = 14
Bernard Combat = 6 + 6 - 5 + 1 = 8
Check Table
Bernard is the attacker and John is the defender. John won so (as John’s total was the higher of the two) using the table, John Evades.
End Of Combat
The GM decides that the speed difference is too great for Bernard to join battle again immediately, so a chase will ensue. They will, of course, start in Advantage next time
Additional Factors
In a Mex City Dog Fighting
If the dog fight happens in an empty Mex City, underground, in an Orbital Post or canyon (where space is restricted) then this is considered Hard difficulty.
Fighting Amongst Traffic
When fighting amongst lots of traffic, this is considered Taxing difficulty.
Extreme Weather
If the weather reduces visibility and winds make accurate flying virtually impossible, then this is considered Hard difficulty.
Stunned Pilot
If the pilot has taken any stun, divide it by 10 and subtract this from the total.
Damage
The more the vehicle is damaged, the worse it will fly. Once the damage has reached at least half of the total damage of the craft, then the Manoeuvre Bonus should be ignored.
Firing Unmounted Weapons
If there are other people inside the vehicle have weapons and are able to fire them (such as from the back seat of a roofless Anchorage Type R) then they may fire straight after the Mounted Weapons do. The to hit modifier is the same as the Manoeuvre Modifier for the attacker. Work out damage as you would for a fire fight.
As the weapon is not mounted to the vehicle, those firing unmounted weapons can fire even when the vehicle is the defender or in advantage. Think of this as firing out of the back of the car when escaping.
Boarding
The attacking vehicle can draw alongside the defender rather than firing mounted weapons. Once alongside, anyone inside either vehicle can attempt to board the other by rolling Shift a check. Failing this check either means that the jump was not made and they remain in their own vehicle or they made the jump but are hanging on by their fingertips and will stay that way until they pass a successful Shift check.
Optional - Losing Control
If the defender fails the manoeuvre then they loose control of their vehicle. The next turn, the GM will choose the manoeuvre and the Character must pass a Pilot or Combat roll (depending on whether they are in combat) to gain control the next turn. The manoeuvre may not be an Evade.
General Flying
Outside of combat, if the Character wishes to do a crazy  manoeuvre (outside the normal realm of flying) then they may do so. A good description and a pass on the relevant Pilot roll will allow them to do this manoeuvre. A fail of the Pilot roll will make them Lose Control (see above).
If the description was entertaining and the risk taken pushes the story of the group along then using the Skill in this way should warrant an immediate (and free) Skill raise of a few percent.
Hacking
Gaia is the 3D virtual world that acts as the internet in Icar. The whole human race revolves around the use of Gaia. For more details on Gaia itself (and the different objects you get in it), see the Gaia section in the Background.
Hacking is the act of performing illegal actions in Gaia. Gaia emulates the laws of the real world and so can be mistreated in a similar way. Hacking often requires a team effort, regardless of whether a Character has the Hacking Skill. 
When considering Gaia, it is best to think of it as the real world rather than a 21st Century computer system. If a message needs to travel through Gaia, you might assume it moves instantly (like email) and although it is instant, you can intercept the message still. Do not worry about the technical concerns here. The aim is to make Gaia playable without any in depth technical knowledge.
What Hacking is used for
Hacking can be used to support a team in Icar.  Hackers make use of specialized hacking programs called “Hacking Entities”, to help them achieve their goal. Most Hacking runs take more than one successful roll of the Hacking Skill. The number of times to roll depends on the difficulty of the task. Following is a selection of actions a Hacker can take, with examples of how many times to roll a Hacking Skill check.
Finding secured data
Breaking and entering into corporate and personal Gaia spaces is the best place to find juicy data. From Corporate systems you can grab employment records, lists of workers, secret plans for future projects, plans of the building layouts and even incriminating files. From personal Gaia Spaces, you can read 3D immersive diary entries, steal the contact information of friends and view their information.
To determine the number of Hacking Skill checks to pass, imagine you had to break into someone’s house to steal their bank statements. You would need to break into the front door (1 roll), then into a locked box of personal items (1 roll). Therefore, you need to roll Hacking twice. Of course, the Hacker never really goes into the house physically but their Gaia Isis will go into the virtual space. If you want to change the information (i.e. their banking statements), you will need to pass another Hacking check.
Fixing sensors and cameras on a loop
In the more secure areas of Imperial space, there are many sensors and Cameras recording everything. To avoid being caught, you might want to Hack the cameras and sensors so that they stop recording and just record a loop of nothing changing.
To determine the number of Hacking Skill checks to pass, imagine you had to do this today in the real world. First, you would need to break into a security room in the building (1 roll) and then force the cameras to break their programming (1 roll). You might also need to destroy a security entity that is watching the camera feed (1 roll). You then need to use the Hacking Entity Looper (1 roll). Therefore, 4 Hacking Skill checks are needed.
Opening real world doors
Breaking into places involves either Hacking the door panel or cutting your way in. To open a real world door, the Hacker must roll just once. For getting access to a Spacecraft, the airlock will have two sets of controls, so you will need to Hack twice.
Accessing the Undergaia
The Undergaia is the name given to accidental fissures in Gaia, which most users cannot sense or locate. The Undergaia is useful for connecting with criminals, finding out restricted data, buying or selling information or hiding data and illegal Entities. More information on the Undergaia is provided in the Gaia section in the background later.
Hacking vehicles and spacecraft
It is possible to disrupt the systems on a Spacecraft or vehicle.  Spacecraft and vehicles have many Gaia Entities (intelligent programs) that automatically control many of the systems. A Hacker can disrupt these systems but only for a short period of time as the Entities will be regenerated by the systems they run. With luck, it is possible to shut down systems with Hacking entirely but it takes many successful rolls.
Vehicles
Vehicles use Entities for opening doors, navigating traffic, driving, maintaining power, gravity dampening fields (which removes g-forces), controlling shielding and a food and drinks bioreorganiser. 
To Hack into a Vehicle, you need to roll twice to get into the security and then once for each system you wish to disrupt. The system will be off in the next turn for that turn only.
If you manage to successfully roll 10 hacking rolls in a vehicle, all further system hacks will be permanent!
Spacecraft
Hacking Spacecraft is a much more difficult affair as a single Spacecraft has thousands of Entities with massive duplication  of effort. As such Hacking Spacecraft systems must be performed from inside or standing on the hull of the craft.
Hacking Augmented Humans
Humans with Cyberware can be hacked if they have a Gaia Link. Cheap bionics suits require 4 passes and expensive bionics suits may require 16 successful rolls of Hacking! Once inside, the Hacker can do all manner of damage, such as switching off the ability to walk or balance, any of the sensors. Bionic implants will not allow Hackers to kill the augmented human but they can be locked inside their own body by Hacking, needing a Medic with Bionics systems to be unlocked.
Hacking Entities
Hacking Entities are special Gaia Entities (intelligent programs) that subvert Gaia and can be used to help a Hacker achieve certain tasks. Hacking Entities each have a specific goal and can be purchased in the Undergaia. To bring a Hacking Entity to life, a successful Hacking roll is required. Some Hacking Entities have more requirements.
A full list of Hacking Entities is in the Technology Section but some examples are given here.
Back Door
Once you have hacked into a system, you can create a Back Door to let you (and anyone else) back in. Back Doors are Easy to find by other hackers or system administrators.
Generator Overloader
The Generator Overloader will set a Generator on a path of self-destruction. Small generators (in emergency lighting) take 60 seconds to overload, whereas large generators (such as in spacecraft) may take up to an hour.
Hacking during combat
Hackers can play their part during combat by changing the environment (opening or closing doors, switching off lights, opening air locks, turning off the gravity). The act of using Gaia is a physical one, a Hacker uses his hands, voice and whole body to control Gaia. Therefore, the amount of Hacking that can be performed in a single combat turn is determined by the Hacker’s Shift statistic. A Hacker may roll for Hacking as many times as he has points in his Shift Statistic. 
If bionically augmented, then the number of rolls increases hugely as it is the augmented Shift statistic that is used, not the natural one.
Other useful Skills
Hacking has its limitations. As a Hacker, you might be excellent at breaking into systems but it does not allow you to do everything. In that case, you will need to use other Skills. If another member of the party has those Skills, they can join you on the Hacking run and can use their appropriate Skills when needed. Here are the most common Skills useful to the Hacker.
Forgery (Life Skill Tree)
Sometimes it is useful to change the things that you find. Improve school records, change employment records or frame someone with video footage.
Impersonation (Academic Skill Tree)
If a Hacker is found somewhere they should not be by another person then pretending you do belong can stop you from being thrown out. This will only work against humans or Security Entities with plenty of intelligence.
Space Combat
Combat in the pitch black void of space is dangerous. To survive, you will need a team (crew) able to fly, arm and repair the spacecraft. Space Combat is a team affair that concentrates on what the Characters are doing, rather than the location of the spacecraft. Maps are only useful for noting roughly where the combatants and astral objects are and where each are heading.
Unlike the rest of combat in Icar, each round is roughly 3 minutes long. That does not mean that weapons fire slowly (the rounds per turn are the same) but you only get one chance to shoot a gun in a 3 minutes block. It is a simplification that makes play more fun.
When entering space combat, it is very important to understand what the aim of the team is: either fight or flee. If you fight, you have the opportunity to destroy systems on any opposing spacecraft. If you flee, you cannot pick and choose what you destroy. You can change this aim at the start of each round.
Spacecraft Combat Initiative
Every spacecraft has a Combat Initiative rating. This rating represents how well suited the spacecraft is for combat. Factors that affect the Combat Initiative include sensors, size, shape, where the generators are, how well armoured the bridge is and thousands of small details that contribute to the spacecraft as being combat effective. Fighters and smaller spacecraft tend to have a higher Combat Initiative. Combat Initiative is not about speed, manouvring or number of guns (which is covered elsewhere), it is about the space craft’s suitability through design.
Combat Initiative is 0 or higher and is added to the Initiative roll made at the start of each turn.
Roles of the team
The crew on-board a spacecraft have a role.  The roles are stations such as; Operations, Pilot, Gunner and Engineer. There can be only one Operations and Pilot but there can be many Gunners and Engineers. During a space combat turn, each of these stations should be filled. The aim is ensure that all the players are busy during combat.
Operations
Operations keeps track of the tactical situation and organises the crew, usually the Captain of the spacecraft. Anyone can perform the Operations station, but it is best suited for someone with a high Wit and Battle Attributes.
In game terms, the Operations role is responsible for rolling Initiative. Having a good initiative means that you’re beginning the turn in a beneficial state.
Pilot
The Pilot is responsible for manoeuvring the craft so that the gunners can shoot specific systems. The Pilot must have the Combat Cruiser Skill. The Pilot Cruiser Skill only allows the crew to flee. If you need the craft’s Artificial Intelligence to fly then surrender!
In game terms, the Pilot must put the craft in a position such that the Gunners can fire at specific systems on the enemy.
Gunners
Gunners man the weapon stations and do damage to the enemy. As Artificial Intelligence systems cannot do harm, it is humans that must fire the weapons. A spacecraft can have as many Gunners as it has weapon entries on its record sheet. A Gunner needs the Heavy Weapons Skill to fire the guns.
Engineers
Engineers make sure that the craft stays in one piece. During combat, Engineers move around the craft fixing system that were targeted by the enemy. To be an Engineer, a Character must have the Spacecraft Systems Skill (or Colony/Weapon/Vehicle Systems at -30%).
Optional Rule - Multiple Roles
Operations or an Engineer may fire guns. However, an Engineer may not fire guns and repair in the same turn. There is no setting justification for this, it makes small crews viable and is more fun!
Space Combat Turn Sequence
The GM will begin space combat by drawing a rough map of the locations of the objects and what their intentions are. Some may be turning to attack, others may be fleeing or innocent bystanders caught in the melee. Each each step in the combat, each combatant does that action, the highest Initiative goes last. This is so that the highest initiative gets a chance to see what the enemy is doing.
Operations Rolls Initiative
Operations rolls: 
Spacecraft Combat Initiative + Battle + Wit + D10
Then each of the combatants are arranged in ladder with the highest roll at the top. Attacking targets with a higher initiative give a negative bonus of -20% to pilot manoeuvring. 
Fight or Flee?
The players then decide whether to fight or flee. This is a team decision but the Operations crew member has the final say.  A turn is 3 minutes, so there is time for discussion.
Fight
When you decide to fight, you get to choose specific systems on an enemy to target. It is much easier to disable a craft by picking systems. 
Choose targets
Once you have decided to fight, you then choose the system on the target ships you want to attack. You can attack as many ships as you have weapon entries on the record sheet and gunners operating them. If you have 2 guns but only one gunner, you can only shoot one gun. This is a team decision but the Operations crew member gets the final say.
Pilot manoeuvre check
The pilot now needs to get the craft into the correct position so the gunners can shoot at the systems you want to hit. Every spacecraft has a manouvre modifier, which you add to your Skill. If you are attacking a craft with a higher initiative, modify your Skill by -20%.
Skill check: Combat Cruiser + Manouvre Modifier + Higher initiative modifier
If successful, the Gunners can shoot the target system you picked without a negative modifier.
Gunners
Each of the Gunners roll to hit a specific system on the target Spacecraft. Each Spacecraft has a list of systems that can be shot at. Next to each system is a % modifier called the Target System Modifier (it is listed simply as % on the Spacecraft record sheet). If the pilot failed the Pilot manouvre check, modify your skill by an extra -20%.
To see if you hit, roll the Skill check:
Skill check: Heavy Firing + Target System Modifier + Pilot manouvre success
If you are shooting something other than a shield (which requires a single energy round), remove the Ammo in the Rounds per Turn (R/T) column for each gun fired from the “Ammo Onboard” box.
If you are Fleeing, a Gunner may only shoot at Shields and Hull.
All shooting occurs simultaneously, so if another craft shoots out your guns just before you get a chance to fire, you still get to shoot this turn and hope the engineers can repair the damage for next turn.
Fleeing
If the fight isn’t going well, the crew may want to flee. To flee you need to choose Flee at the start of three consecutive turns.
After three turns of trying to flee, you can determine if it is possible. If your craft has a Point to Point (PTP) Light Jump or a Curve Surf engine then you may jump to another system, leaving the combat. If your craft does not have PTP then you have to outrun them on Grav. To do that, the spacecraft needs to have a Manoeuvre score equal or larger than your pursuer. Otherwise, you are going to have to fight or surrender.
While fleeing, the Gunners may fire at any targets but may not select a system. This is because selecting a system requires you to be in the right position and fleeing is not about getting into the right position but getting away fast. If the Grav Engine is knocked out then no fleeing can be done until it is repaired. Once repaired, the three turns of fleeing must begin again.
Engineers Repair
It is the job of the Engineers to repair damaged systems. Engineers cannot replace shields or Hull damage during combat, but they can repair other systems. To repair a damaged system: do a Spacecraft Systems check: 
Skill check: Spacecraft Systems
When a system has taken catastrophic damage (see below) it cannot be repaired and must be replaced in a Star Dock.
Combat Over?
If there are no more targets then the combat is over. Otherwise, a new turn begins. The GM will update the locations of the craft on the map and initiative is rolled again.
Taking Damage
Shields
Before any damage is done to the Spacecraft, the shields must be depleted. The number of shields are listed on the spacecraft record sheet. A shield lasts an entire turn and protects from all damage during that turn. Once it goes down, the next pops up until they are depleted. Shields can only be damaged by an Energy Weapon, but it only takes a single round.
Hull
When shooting the hull, take the number from the Dmg/T box on the spacecraft weapon and add it to a running total in the Damage Taken disc.
Targeted Systems
If a Targeted System is hit by a gunner then strike a line through it to show that it cannot be used until fixed by an Engineer. Hull damage is also taken when a targeted system is shot at.
Accumulated Damage
When the Damage Taken exceeds a damage level on the chart then that system is inoperable and cannot be fixed without a Star Dock. 
For example: In the Crowthorne damage chart above damage is measured in thousands. If the Spacecraft takes 100,000 points of damage then a Generator is damaged. After 140,000 points of accumulated damage, the Shield Generator is damaged and so on.
Catastrophic Damage
Catastrophic damage occurs when a spacecraft system is hit in two separate turns without an engineer repairing it inbetween. Catastrophic damage means that the system must be replaced in a repair facility.
Space Combat Tactics
Space Comabt in Icar is a different to other space opera combat systems and it breeds a different kind of tactic. It is difficult to know exactly under what circumstance you should fight, flee or surrender.
You get to see the stats of the enemy
Spacecraft cannot hide their abilities, even the most basic sensor scans can give you enough information to see the contents of the enemy’s spacecraft record sheet.
Bigger space craft are not always better
Having a lot of hull hit points does not make you invicible because Space Combat in Icar is not a battle of attrition. A smaller craft with a highly trained crew and three gun clusters can disable a larger craft quite easily. Weigh up the enemy’s spacecraft record sheet against yours carefully before you decide to flee.
The difference in shields means free shots
When you enter a combat, weigh up the difference in between your shields and theirs. You can think of this difference as the number of free attacks. If you have 10 shields and they have 3, you can have 7 turns of shooting them without them being able to damage your systems. 
If you are in a small craft with few crew, then you can take out lots of their systems without any worry of damage.
Weapons or Grav Engine first
On slower enemies, it is usually better to shoot out the weapons. On quicker enemies, it is usually better to shoot out the Grav Engine. A spacecraft that cannot shoot in a combat is doomed. One that cannot shoot or run away should surrender.
Have an exit strategy with repair in mind
Before you jump into a fight (assuming it’s not sprung on you), check out the Cluster map and ensure that there is a place where you can get to quickly to repair if you need to flee. Keep in mind that some Star Docks might not appreciate you fighting with spacecraft they have a service contract with.
Remember that your enemy can follow you when you flee with a light jump and although you might be quicker, if you are in a Star Dock, you are vulnerable.
Ammunition is expensive
A single round of 20 guage (20G) pulse laser ammunition is common but exceptionally expensive. To destroy the hull of a very large space craft would be extremely costly. Taking out a system is much cost effective.
Surrender options
Surrending may not be the end! If an enemy surrenders, then  make the best out of their cargo. A surrendering crew must not be trusted, especially if the losing crew are going to become hostages. If you manage to get onboard the spacecraft of a victorious enemy, consider attacking from inside.
Space Combat Example
In this example, two spacecraft are pitted against each other. You can find the space craft in the Equipment index but we will deal with general details here. Only two turns are dealt with here as example. The crew of the two spacecraft are:

Gaterunner (the smaller craft)
Captained by Simon (Operations Role, Battle = 7, Wit = 8) with gunner Gideon (Heavy Firing 70%), pilot Peter (Combat Cruiser 60%) and Engineer Andrew (Spacecraft Systems 70%). This is the player Character spacecraft. The Gaterunner has only one shield left, a Combat Initiative of and a Manouvre Modifier of +30.
Cyclone (the much, much larger craft)
Captained by Kathryn (Operations Role, Battle = 7, Wit = 5 ) with gunners Sarah (Heavy Firing 75%) and Louise (Heavy Firing 70%), flown by Matilda (Combat Cruiser 60%) and Engineer Constance (Spacecraft Systems 40%). This is the non-player Character spacecraft. The Cyclone has only one shield left, a Combat Initiative of +1 and Manouvre Modifier of +10.
Turn 1 - Operations roll initiative
Kathryn and Simon  roll initiative:
Combat Initiative + Battle + Wit + D10
Kathryn rolls 7, giving a initiative of 20 (1+7+5+7=20). Simon rolls 6, giving an initiative of 24 (3+7+8+6=24). Therefore the Gaterunner goes first and the Cyclone crew suffer a modifier of -20% to the Pilot manouvre check.
Turn 1 - Fight or Flee?
The Cyclone crew are forced to decide first as they have the lower initiative. Based on the size of their craft, they decide to fight.
The players decide to fight as they have the benefit of winning the initiative and their shields protect them for at least this turn. Having shields means that you do not need to decide to flee just yet.
Turn 1 - Pick Targets
The Gaterunner has shields up, they cannot choose a specific system to fire up, so the Cyclone crew choose to shoot at the Hull.
As the Cyclone has shields up, the players choose to shoot at the hull, giving the same modifier.
Turn 1 - Pilots Manoeuvre
Matilda, the Cyclone Pilot, rolls Combat Cruiser Skill check. As the are attacking a spacecraft with a higher initiative, Matilda subtracts 20% from her Skill of 60%. The Cyclone has a manouvre rating of +10%. She needs to roll under 50% (60 - 20 + 10). She rolls 54, which is a fail. The two Cyclone gunners will be shooting with a -20% modifier.
Peter, the player pilot, has Combat Cruiser at 60%. As Peter is manouvring against a spacecraft with a lower initiative, he gets no negative modifier. He adds the Gaterunner’s manouvring of 30% to his still of 60%. He must roll under 90%. He rolls D100 and gets 25. Therefore, his successful piloting has allowed the player gunner to shoot without a negative modifier.
Turn 1 - Gunners Shoot
The Cyclone crew shoot at the hull of the Gaterunner. The Cyclone has 2 guns and the crew has two gunners. As the Cyclone pilot failed the roll, they must subtract 20% from their Skills. They get two shots, on for each weapon on the spacecraft record sheet. 
Sarah has a Heavy Firing Skill of 75% but must subtract 20% because the pilot manouvre check failed. She rolls a D100 and gets 60%, which is a miss. Louise fires has a Heavy Firing Skill of 70% and must subtract 20% too. She rolls 18, which is a hit. The single shot is enough to shut down the last Gaterunner shield (they only had one left). No ammo is removed because they are shooting at the shields.
Now Gideon can use the guns of the Gaterunner to fire. Shields only need one round to be taken down, so he fires one shot, rolling D100. The target is 90% - his Skill Heavy Firing 70%. He rolls 47, which is under. The last Cyclone shield goes down. As Gideon is the only gunner, the Gaterunner crew only get one shot.
Turn 1 - Engineers repair
The Cyclone has not taken any damage yet.
The Gaterunner has not taken any damage either, so Andrew the Engineer is probably yelling about the shields being out and how they need to flee.
Turn 1 - Is combat over?
Not yet! No-one has fled or surrendered. So it is onto turn 2.
Turn 2 - Operations roll initiative
Kathryn and Simon roll initiative:
Combat Initiative + Battle + Wit + D10
Kathryn rolls 2, giving a initiative of 15 (1+7+5+2=15). Simon rolls 8, giving an initiative of 26 (3+7+8+8=26). Therefore the Gaterunner wins again and the Cyclone crew suffer a modifier of -20% to the Pilot Manouvring check.
Turn 2 - Fight or Flee?
The Cyclone crew lost the initiative so will be going first again through this turn. Being the bigger craft, they decide to fight.
The Gaterunner crew decide to fight too. Why? Because they are players and while they have the initiative, the chance of doing system damage to the Cyclone is high.
Turn 2 - Pick Targets
As shields are down, the Cyclone crew elect to shoot at the Hull again. The Gaterunner’s hull is not very strong, so they believe taking it out might force them to surrender.
The players decide to shoot out one of the pulse laser guns, evening up the fight.
Turn 2 - Pilots Manoeuvre
Matilda, the Cyclone Pilot, rolls Combat Cruiser, with -20% for attacking a crafter with a better initiative and +10% for the Cyclone’s manouvring. She rolls 60, which is a fail.
Peter, the Gaterunner pilot, rolls Pilot Cruiser with the Gaterunner’s +30% manouvring modifier and rolls 14, which is a pass.
Turn 2 - Gunners Shoot

The Cyclone gunners shoot at the hull of the Gaterunner. Their pilot failed the manouvring roll, so they reduce their Heavy Firing Skill checks by 20%. 
Both the gunners pass their Heavy firing rolls and do 8000 points to the hull of the player’s Gaterunner. The Gaterunner crew add 8000 into ‘damage taken’. This damage does not hurt the Gaterunner. Their damage needs to get to 30,000 points before they take noticeable damage - a generator.
Gideon, the Gaterunner gunner, shoots at the Pulse Laser on the Cyclone. The Pulse Laser system on the Spacecraft record sheet has a modifier of -20%. He rolls 23, which is under the 30% he needs (70% Skill with -20% modifier). The system is crossed out and 2000 is put into the Cyclone’s ‘damage taken’ semi circle.
Turn 2 - Engineers repair
The Cyclone has a damaged Pulse Laser, so the Cyclone Engineer Constance rolls against her Spacecraft Systems of 40% to attempt a repair. She rolls 51, so the weapon remains inoperative.
The Gaterunner has taken hull damage but this requires a Space Dock to fix.
Turn 2 - Is combat over?
No-one is fleeing and there isn’t any sign of surrender. So combat continues.
Turn 3 - Operations roll initiative
Kathryn and Simon roll initiative:
Combat Initiative + Battle + Wit + D10
Kathryn rolls 9, giving a initiative of 21 (1+7+5+9=21). Simon rolls 2, giving an initiative of 20 (3+7+8+2=20). The Cyclone wins and the players will suffer a modifier of -20% to the Pilot Manouvring check.
Turn 3 - Fight or Flee?
The players must decide what they are going to do first and have been rattled by the damage done by the Cyclone guns. The Cyclone has only one gun now, so they are only doing 4000 points of damage a turn. That leaves them plenty of time but they are no risk takers, so decide to flee.
This is an option because the Gaterunner Manoeuvre rating is +30, which is larger than the  Cyclone Manoeuvre of +10.
The Cyclone is going to chase them down.
Turn 3 - Pick Targets
As the players are fleeing, they can only shoot at the hull. Ammunition is expensive and their weapons are do not do enough damage to the Cyclone to make it worthwhile, so they will not fire. Gideon (the Gaterunner’s gunner) will help Andrew (the Engineer) as he has Energy System skill at 50%.
The Cyclone crew decide to try and shoot out the Gaterunner’s Grav Engine with both guns to try and stop them from running away.
Turn 3 - Pilots Manoeuvre
Peter has a Combat Pilot of 80%, his modifiers are -20% for attacking a craft with a higher initiative and +30% for the manouvring of the Gaterunner. With modifiers, he needs to roll under 90%. He rolls 98, which is a fail.
Matilda rolls 21, which is under her Combat Cruiser Skill of 60%, even without the manouvring bonus from the Cyclone of +10%. Her gunners can now shoot at the Grav Engine with a modifier from her.
Turn 3 - Gunners Shoot

The Cyclone only has one gun, the other was damaged last turn and the repair roll failed. Sarah is the better shot so takes control of it. The Cyclone team (the GM) decides that the Gaterunner is not allowed to escape and so they elect to try and shoot out its propulsion - the Grav Engine. This carries a -30% modifier.
Sarah needs to roll under 45 (Skill is 75% with a -30 modifier). She does not manage it and no damage is done to the Gaterunner at all - not even to the hull.
Turn 3 - Engineers repair
The Cyclone still has a damaged Pulse Laser, so the Engineer Constance has a second attempt at fixing it by rolling against her Spacecraft Systems of 40%. She rolls 31, so the weapon is fixed and the line through it is rubbed out. From now on both Sarah and Louise may fire.
Turns 4 and 5
For the next two turns, the players keep electing to flee and the Cyclone keeps trying to knock out the Grav engine on the Gaterunner but fail. At the end of the 5th turn, the Gaterunner has fled for 3 turns in a row, so combat is over. The Gaterunner  may now light jump or head off into another part of the system.
Background
Overview
Icar is set in 92028 AD, the human race is spread across space and is ruled by a benevolent government called the Imperium. Another race of sentient robots called ‘The Droids’, inhabit the galaxy and are a dire threat to humanity. The Droids were originally created to dispose of a strain of zombie humans. The Droids then turned against all of humanity, waging a successful campaign of death and destruction until 1,000 years ago, when they began an internal  civil war. The Droids are no longer a single race with a single purpose and so humanity has been saved - for the time being. In most campaigns, the Droids are used as the monster-in-the-closet, player characters might fight them later in the campaign but only when the reward is worth the considerable risk.
The Imperium
The Imperium is composed of many Chambers, each governing an aspect of humanity’s development. Outside of these Chambers are the Imperial Peers who are Lords and Ladies who are given their own areas of space to look after; and the Star Industries: Star Fleet, Star Scientifica, Star Civilisation, Star Enforcers. Star Fleet is tasked with defending humanity from external threats, such as the Droids. Star Scientifica makes sure research continues apace, Star Civilisation looks after human welfare, education and medicine and the Star Enforcers are the police. The Imperium uses an Artificially Intelligent (AI) machine called The Nexus to act as impartial judge and communicator between the Star Industries. The entire Imperium is driven by a civic duty that if they were not to continue their work in the interests of the human race, the Droids would soon win and the human race would be lost.
Corporations, although driven by profit are not considered to be evil. They too have a civic duty to the human race, a fact the Imperium is quick to remind them of. There is a single currency, the Imperial Credit. Banking is illegal.
Geography
Human space is split into three Sectors and each Sector is split into a huge number of clusters. A cluster is a group of stars that geographically are nearby and have a shared economy. A system is a series of planets orbiting a single star. Most Icar campaigns will take place across one or two Clusters.
Humans live in Colonies. A Colony is normally on or under a planet’s surface and is built using a set of standard building blocks called Mex Buildings. A Mex City is a large number of Mex buildings formed into a lattice. People also live on spacecraft (or space ships) and in space stations, called Orbitals and Orbs.
Technology
Travel between the stars is easy and cheap. Spacecraft are numerous and much of a Colony’s economy depends upon selling goods to other planets or systems.
Humanity communicates using Gaia, a virtual world that is a copy of the real world. Gaia is immersive and the detail is such that in popular places, the five senses can be completely mislead. Communication between two locations in Gaia is instantaneous, regardless of the real world distances involved. Gaia also contains astronomical data on all known star systems, and is used as a navigational aid aboard all spacecraft. Most people use their real world appearance in Gaia but the more avant-garde use any form or shape they feel like. Gaia is free to use in public holorooms but advanced (and business) users will have a Gaiacard, which can store programs (called Entities) and information. You cannot be killed through Gaia.
The human race have created a secondary race of machines called Automatons. These intelligent machines differ from the Droids in that they are unable to cause harm to humans. Automatons can be found everywhere and in all shapes and sizes, from humanoid receptionists that are indistinguishable from humans to automated cargo haulers called ‘Hoppers’. Every Automaton has an owner but there are those fighting for their rights to be considered as equals. Most humans have an uneasy distrust of Automatons, regardless of their proven safety.
Humanity
The human race has evolved and as it did so, it split into different Genuses. Common humans are Genus 1. The Genus 2 mutation is a zombie-like race who are poisonous to the other Genus (that the Droids were designed to kill). Genus 3 are a rare race of humans with ‘psychic’ powers. The Imperium does not recognise their existence publicly.
Philosophically, the human race can be split into three groups: Technologists, who believe that the future of the human race lies in technology; Humanists, who think the opposite; and Akarakians who follow a philosophy of Futurism, based around ideas of the end justifying the means. There are no major religions or superstitions.
The human race augments itself with technology and all birth defects can be rectified. Bionics include under-the-skin bionics called Cyberware, limb-replacement bionics called Borgware and minor genetic modification called Bioweave. Some people embrace this technology for its benefits but the general human populace fear those with powerful augmentations and so are less popular as you might imagine.
Syndicates
Not everyone plays by the rules. The Imperial Nexus’s exceptional information and resources, petty crime is easily solved. Crime syndicates are a reaction to the Nexus, highly organised groups of people that seek to gain power, make money or subvert society. Syndicates tend to be either Humanist or Technologist in belief and this generates considerable conflict.
The Galaxy
The Milky Way galaxy contains approximately one hundred billion stars. It is one hundred thousand light years in diameter and bulges in the middle sixteen thousand light years thick. The galaxy is populated by two species. Only one hundred million of the stars in the Milky Way hold stable systems, the others are either engulfed in Nebulae, have no useful planets or sit within the penumbra. Of these systems, approximately ten million are populated by one of two species. The first, holding 95% of known space is the race called ‘Droids’, hostile to the other 5%, which is an evolution of homo sapiens. Many sentient species of lower intelligence exist, but do not have a bearing on interstellar affairs. The galaxy is broken up into areas called Sectors.
The Galactic Divisions picture shows a plan view of the Milky Way. Volumes 1-13 are situated in the Morpheus Arm of the galaxy, this the vastly explored area of the Galaxy, occupied by Droids and Humans alike. Around the edge of the arm are systems known as the Lone Systems, a region of stars that are far enough apart to make trade and defence unpractical. A small strip (about the thickness of the white line) that exists just outside human space is known as the Fringe, this is a more prosperous but unruly area of space. The humans class the Fringe as Lone Systems. 
Volume 14 is the Galactic Core, an impassible mass of energy at the centre of the Galaxy. Volume 15 is the opposite galactic arm called the Hypnos Arm, which is largely and uncolonised due to the huge distances involved. 
The galaxy is split into two arms, the Morpheus Arm and the Hypnos Arm. The Morpheus Arm is the only one documented in Icar, so is split into sections called Sectors. Within a Sector, stars form in clumps called Clusters. Around each star is a set of planets (stars without any planets tend to go unnoticed), a star and its planets are called a System. Only stable Systems are considered for colonisation, unstable Systems include those with unstable or multiple stars or those near space anomalies. Space is considered as being 2D as the Galaxy spins in one plane (although it is 3D, it is not very fat in its third dimension so is ignored for simplicity). Furthermore, the curves and anomalies of space are not listed on the diagrams.
Droid Space
Droid Space is the name given to the huge volume of star systems that the Droids occupy. The Droids are an artificially intelligent race of xenophobic robots. Created by created by  Humanity to fight a war against a genetically poisonous race of humans. A flaw in their programming caused the Droids to turn on their creators, resulting in a massive loss of human life - leaving only 0.5% of the human race. Another flaw in their system was exploited by their creators and the Droids turned against each other. Droid space is split into factions, areas where the Droids have split into groups. There are approximately 5 million different factions. Every system in Droid space is utilised in the most optimum manner, mostly for the creation of more Droids and support facilities.
The Droids are an extremely powerful race with incredible resources, if at any time the many factions joined together, then a concerted (and successful) effort may be made against the human space. Until this time, the infighting amongst the Droids makes them ineffective against the humans. The emergence of the factions within the Droids does highlight another of their weaknesses, that they do evolve over time. There is a possibility that some factions may evolve into a nonviolent race. Droids are organised by Mark and Variant, the Mark is just a way of distinguishing type (by number), it is not a chronological marking. Variant is a chronological marking (by letter), the higher the letter, the more powerful the Droid is. 
Droids are extremely intelligent and will not give up until death. They have the ability to reproduce themselves (given the right resources) and can tactically gauge very complex situations from a very objective point of view. Their idea of self-worth only exists to aid a completed mission. The Droids will only sacrifice themselves if the number of kills it can get is more than continuing its existence. At the start of The Droid War, the Droids could program other machines to turn against their human masters. Since the advent of Gaia and the Gaia 2 programming language, Droids are unable to access any machines within human space. This has effectively made all vehicles and home-service Automatons safe from Droids forcibly altering their programming.
‘Droid’ is a specific name for this particular race of killing machines. Not all robots are Droids, only those programmed to kill are called Droids. More information on this distinction can be found in the Automatons section.
Human Occupied Space
A small proportion of the Milky Way is controlled and inhabited by humans. The area of Human Occupied Space (HOS) is split into three sectors: Sayshell, Dorian and Remmar. The Human race is in a period of rebuilding and expansion, a post war era. All that separates the Humans and Droids is an invisible Light Jump Net: A web that temporarily stops spacecraft travelling at faster than light speeds. While disabled, humans can intercept and destroy the Droid craft. Human Occupied Space is controlled by a benevolent organisation called The Imperium, without which chaos would reign and the Droids would surely invade and overwhelm with ease.
The Imperium
The Imperium is a benevolent empire that is the guardian of the human race. The Imperium consists of a set of Chambers, each overseeing a particular area of the Imperium’s operation. Overall power is assigned to an Empress who is arbiter and leader. The core of The Imperium is a small organisation, employing only twenty thousand people. However, the Imperium has direct control of the ‘Star Chambers’, organisations under the pay of The Imperium who are the real power. The Star Chambers are Star Fleet, Star Scientifica, Star Enforcers and Star Civilisation

The Imperial Chambers
The Imperial Chambers are the organisations within the Imperium that control the day-to-day running of humanity. The Imperial Chambers are filled with the brightest minds of the human race and number just three thousand. Each councillor has a menagerie of politicians, information brokers and analysts, making the Imperium appear larger than it actually is.
Imperial High Chamber
This Chamber is actually made from two eminent councillors from each of the other Chambers. The Chamber deals with Imperial policy and is chaired by the Empress. The Empress has final say about all matters but normally the best solution is hammered out long before this Chamber sits in a meeting.
Imperial Civil Chamber
This Chamber deals with colonisation and matters of power within the three sectors. The Civil Chamber also deals with expansion and grants for existing systems. The Civil Chamber is by far the largest of the Chambers  (at 300 personnel) and controls the majority of Imperial funds.
Imperial Resource Chamber
The Resource Chamber controls the flow of money around the Galaxy. By controlling money, the control of inflation (which is practically unheard of) and the issuing of funds across the Imperium. This is similar to a 20th Century central bank but as there is no lending or other currencies, their job is considerably more simple.
Imperial Star Chamber
This Chamber is made up from the heads of each of the Star Chambers. This Chamber allows each Star Chamber to vent their problems and help others to find solutions. The Empress sits as chair of this Chamber in most sessions. The Empress only speaks up when a disagreement occurs.
The Chamber of Imperial Peers
The Imperial Peers are the Imperial Lords and Ladies who oversee the running of Clusters in Human Occupied Space. The Imperial Peers sit in session rarely, most disputes are settled calmly amongst the Peers from their home Clusters over Gaia. The Imperial Peers must sit in session together at least once per year, an event more to do with pageantry than political benefit.
Benevolence
The Imperium is not corrupt as one might expect, they are by their very nature a benevolent organisation. It is understood throughout all the Chambers that their actions could save or destroy the human race. Any corruption is immediately rooted out and removed in a completely public manner. Such paranoia about corruption is seated deeply within The Imperium as the last time corruption was allowed to seep in, it lead to a massive inter-human war (The Aran War). Honour is key, no Imperial worker would dishonour themselves with corruption.
The Imperium is based in a crescent of systems in Remmar called The Imperial Crescent from where they gather information, hold festivals and allow people a place to voice their anxieties. The Imperial Crescent is a high tech and social model for the rest of the human race and attracts millions of holiday makers each year as well as businesses who believe that being close to the seat of power provides them with influence.
Star Fleet
As the name suggests, Star Fleet is a fleet of spacecraft and warriors that defend the human race against the Droids. The Fleet is split into three Commands: Battle Command, Support Command and Colonial Command. Battle Command consist of all the spacecraft and warriors that do the fighting. Support Command deals with the logistics of keeping the Battle Command supplied and in good working order. Colonial Command visits systems within the Fringe, acts as negotiator and even offers Imperial protection to some of the more progressive systems. 
Star Fleet is equipped with the pinnacle of human technology to combat the Droids and has discovered tactics and methods for defeating them even when outnumbered. Many of the spacecraft in the Fleet (ranging from massive Battleships down to small and fast Clippers) spend their time patrolling the Light Jump Nets which surround the edges of the sectors that border with the Droids, waiting for any spacecraft to be caught in the Net. Star Fleet’s foot soldiers are a legion of power armoured knights called Troopers, a select few of which become highly trained Special Forces and the very best are made into the Elite. Troopers are not grunts, they are highly educated, trained and professional fighting force.
The Fleet is based in the Turus cluster in Sayshell and have vowed that Sayshell will never fall to the Droids. The public rarely sees Star Fleet except when broadcasted by the Gaian News programmes. Gritty battles remain unedited at the request of The Fleet. Some colonies with a strong leisure community might be chosen for leisure time for the crews. Troopers and pilots like to party and often take over bars, clubs and entire pleasure resorts. 
Star Fleet and the general public
Civilian spacecraft Captains running expeditionary missions across the Light Jump Net will be scanned by Star Fleet as they re-enter Human Occupied Space. Although The Fleet is looking for the presence of Droids on board they will also scan for other illegal items but will hand the information to the Star Enforcers rather than spending time enforcing the law. The vast majority of the general public bear enormous respect for the members of The Fleet and appreciate the work that they do. It is common for a member of the public to approach a member of the Star Fleet and offer to buy them a drink, shake their hand or thank them.
Star Scientifica
With colonies placed across such a huge distance, it was noticed that any scientific discoveries took many years to proliferate through the colonies. Star Scientifica (Star Sci) was created as a centre of academic wisdom and research. Many of the great scientists flocked to be part of the Imperium funded research. Star Sci is now highly secretive, many of the installations it controls are completely hidden about the galaxy (and some are even in Droid space). 
Many of the areas of technology researched are kept away from the public and are released when it is deemed safe to do so. This is seen as ‘saving the public from themselves’ and has proved to be a very good idea. Important new discoveries are fairly distributed to the companies which benefit from them, thus providing a periodic boost to technology without creating a technological monopoly.
Organisation
Star Sci is organised by area of research. The research groups are known as the Elements and are split into Fire (pure theory), Earth (non-space application of pure theory), Air (biology, botany etc), Water (social sciences) and Void (anything to do with space). Specially chosen scientists from each of the Elements gather together at a Gaia space called The Quorum of Elements. Here they discuss problems and share major findings.
Star Sci and the general public
The general public will sporadically hear about corporations being presented with advanced technology or colonies being provided with a scientific solution to a global catastrophe. News stories regarding Star Sci are normally accompanied with a grin and raised eyebrows.
Star Civilisation
When the last Emperor, Morius, died, his left a list of jobs for his successor, Empress Eshkar, to do. These were tasks he believed were vital but had run out of time to complete. Star Civilisation (Star Civ) was one of these. Star Civ was set up to make sure that every colony had adequate food, medical and educational facilities. Star Civ is responsible for:
Ensuring food and water for all
Educating people over Gaia
Providing health care
Creating, fostering new colonies
Protecting independent colonies
Housing and caring for those in hardship
Issuing licenses
Supervising and supporting colonial councils
Choosing new Imperial Peers
Star Civ is the second largest Star Chamber (after the Star Enforcers) and has had a huge impact every human’s life. Star Civ are pervasive throughout every facet of life from the cradle to the grave. Schooling at the start and geriatric care at the end. Through the rest, they are seen as helpful councillors and public servants that are impartial and kind.
Many argue that the Imperium wants to control what people think and the best way to do this is to control the education of children. This is purely conjecture and there are no indications that the lessons taught have changed in content. Children are actively encouraged to question the Imperium.
Star Civ Healthcare
Doctors are paid a nominal fee for taking care of patients. These Doctors can be found on all space craft and colonies  and do not feed back information to Star Civ.
Star Civ also run trauma units where those that are badly wounded can be picked up and looked after by highly trained paramedics. The service is free but the patient is scanned. Star Civ Artificial Intelligences (AIs) can also assist over Gaia. The medical AI gives a +20% to a Medical skill roll for a Doctor in need of help or allows a non-medical person to stabilise the patient. 
The downside of using Star Civ is that the Nexus is always watching and will use the information it gleans from your medical emergency as evidence for Star Enforcers. Be careful that you do not implicate the patient - or yourselves in a crime by using it.
Star Enforcers
The Star Enforcers (or simply The Enforcers) replaced a corrupt and under resourced interstellar police force (called the FEDS). Utilising their own fleet and resources, The Enforcers are able to keep excellent law and order on Colonies and in space around them. The Star Enforcers are split into four ‘Divisions’: Void, Investigation, Colonial and Justice. Void deals with the spacecraft and defends against pirates. Investigation deals with matters of interstellar importance (particularly dangerous criminals). Colonial is by far the largest of the divisions and includes all the police on colonies keeping law and order. The last division is Justice system and deals with imprisonment and execution (depending on local law).
Getting away with crime
You might assume that with such advanced technologies comes the benefit of being able to tie criminals down with greater ease. However the Nexus requires the Star Enforcers to have huge amounts of evidence regarding the crime before a conviction can be made. This is because humans are fallible and any physical evidence (sensor footage, genetic information, sensor recordings in high tech buildings) can be forged. The only sure fire way of being immediately arrested and convicted is to perform a crime in front of a Star Enforcer. The more evidence the criminals leave over a series of criminal acts, the more likely the Nexus will request their arrest. Typical Criminal activities are listed in Typical Criminal Activities on page 65.
Corporations
Corporations tread a fine line between exploiting colonies and providing for them. The law is broad enough to stop Corporations from controlling colony politics. Corporations come in three sizes: Intersector, Intercluster and Local. Intersector corporations stretch across all of Human Occupied Space and include the biggest brands that have been around for tens of thousands of years. Intercluster Corporations tend to be localised amongst a few clusters in a single Sector. Local Corporations at the very most spread over only a single cluster. A list of well known and example corporations are included in the section on Corporations on page 62.
Black Mills
Most Local and few Intercluster Corporations fund secret ‘Black Mill’ subsidiaries to influence the markets, steal secrets from competitors and even cause damage to other companies. Although illegal, Black Mills have become expert in evading the Star Enforcers and often make use of criminal Syndicates. Black Mills use the Undergaia to arrange missions, hire mercenaries and exchange private corporate data.
Imperial Lords and Ladies
The Imperial Lords and Ladies (Imperial Peers) oversee and rule the three Sectors. By their very nature, they do not intervene unless called for, they are the emissaries of the Imperium and are figureheads of the systems they oversee. The general public see their Peer as the ultimate problem solver as the Peer is normally required to solve large, system wide problems. A Peer visiting a colony can provide a massive economic boost alone.
Funding is given to the Peers by the Imperium to award systems that have either shown promise or have fallen on hard times. The criteria for awards is largely left in the realm of the Peers. Other funding is often redirected into teams of troubleshooters and investigators under the constant pay of the Peer. These groups attempt to solve problems in a quiet and ground level way rather than using the large scale economic powers of the Peers.
Peers do not openly discuss their philosophical view points (as either Humanist, Technologist or Futurist) but they do influence their decisions. A Peer’s philosophical belief is the topic of many bar conversations. In each of the Peer descriptions below, the philosophical belief assumed by the general public is given.
Lady Tess Cannar
Lady Cannar is a tough, unscrupulous Dorian Sector Peer. Her severe bobbed hair, pale pallor and slight build gives her a sharp appearance. In dealing with colony councils and corporations, she is notably curt, brief and direct. When compassion is required for the populace, Lady Cannar transforms into a kind and caring maternal character. It is this convincing dual personality that is most unsettling for those who follow her exploits.
Before becoming a Peer, Lady Canner was the heiress of a large Dorian Trade Corporation but was more interested in people. Emperor Morius was taken by her ‘People First’ policies and made her an Imperial Peer at the age of 22. Assumed to believe in Humanist philosophy.
Lord James Walker
Lord Walker is an upbeat, camp and outrageous Peer. The general public are in love with and perplexed by him in equal measure. His bubbly outgoing personality and fast talking hyperbolic speeches hide a shrewd negotiator and businessman. Lord Walker is mostly known for the perpetual party that erupts wherever he visits.
Before becoming a Peer, Lord Walker was a wealthy experimental artisan and was a household name throughout many of the clusters he now supervises. Assumed to believe in Humanist philosophy.
Lord Stephen Lawrence
Lord Lawrence is a proud and serious Peer who speaks softly but demands respect. He is a gentle man, who takes the time to listen to anyone who takes the time to tell him their woes. Lord Lawrence works tirelessly for his people and was once ordered to have a holiday from work by the Empress - a holiday he spent inspecting leisure facilities on one of his Colonies. Lord Lawrence not a great economist, so takes his economic advise from a herd of advisers.
Before becoming a Peer, Lord Lawrence was a Star Fleet Stub Wing pilot, having served 15 years with the 2nd Stub Wing Fighter Squadron on the Star Clipper Relentless. Assumed to believe in Technologist philosophy.
Lady Jacqueline Crowell
Lady Crowell is a young, energetic Peer who delights in asking difficult questions of those whom she meets. Fiercely intelligent and keen on understanding everything about each place she visits. This can cause embarrassment in those on the receiving end of the question but always commands respect from each witness. A relatively new Peer, Lady Crowell has rapidly gained a large following for her direct and positive attitude.
Lady Crowell emerged as a candidate from one of Remmar’s wealthy families. Lady Crowell was spotted as a rising star while working in the Imperial Civil Chamber. Assumed to believe in Futurist philosophy.
Lady Berrinda
Lady Berrinda is as fierce as her reputation. A fiery Character who throws her power and weight behind causes she believes in. Lady Berrinda spends most of her time at fledgeling colonies, which has little economic affect but does improve the survival of young colonies.
Lady Berrinda came to Emperor Morius’s attention when she led a fleet of 25 huge freighter spacecraft through 12 clusters of Droid space and across the Light Jump net into safety. Saving millions of lives, Lady Berrinda was halted from going back by being made a Peer. It is believed that this threw her into a rage that lasted a week - a belief that is rooted in truth. Morius appeased her by giving her clusters along the Light Jump Net edge of Remmar Sector (the Typhon side). Assumed to believe in Technologist philosophy.
Lady Axa Erland
Lady Erland is the Imperial Peer in charge of the Akarak Nation. Although appointed by the Empress, Lady Erland was drawn from the Akarakian Elders. Lady Erland is a typical Akarakian and strictly follows the three tenets of hard work, expansion of the mind and a pragmatic view that the end justifies the means. For more detail see Akarak Nation on page 60.
Imperial Peer Trade Navies
Each Peer also has a Trade Navy. These spacecraft are owned and operated by the Peer. Trade routes which would not be viable for a normal trader will be given to the Trade Navy (as they do not need to pay taxes to the Peer). Trade Navies are resented by other trading firms but they are understood as a necessary evil. If a Trade Navy turns a trade route profitable, it is required to hand over that route to a trade company and turn its attentions elsewhere.
Clusters and Peer Control
Most Clusters tend to stay under the control of the same Peer. However, the Peers can swap Clusters between them (as long as the general public vote in favour). Another method for changing Peer is when the Council of many systems  in the Cluster vote against the Peer. This is uncommon and frowned upon by the Imperial Civil Chamber. Normally, the Cluster will only vote against the Peer if there has been a serious miscarriage of justice.
Peer Creation
Peers are chosen from a shortlist (compiled by Star Civ) of wealthy industrialists by the Empress and the position is a double edged sword - it’s a position of considerable power  and influence but you cannot refuse if you are called upon to serve. Peers spend most of their time travelling between systems and as such do not have a seat of power. While en route between systems, business and problems are dealt with over Gaia.
The Sectors
The galactic arm is split into Sectors. Each Sector began life as an administrative zone, which then grew into a place where people would be proud of. Since The Droid War, all but three Sectors fell to the Droids. The Imperium built Light Jump Nets along the borders of each of the human occupied space sectors to stop the Droid ships just long enough for the Star Fleet to intercept.
The three Sectors under human control are Sayshell, Dorian and Remmar. Sayshell is the home of Star Fleet and having never fallen to the Droids, it is prosperous and very high tech. Dorian holds the reigns of production and is mostly industrial and trade orientated. Remmar, newly retaken from the Droids is the sector of expansion and new opportunities. Sectors can be further broken down into clusters.
A Cluster is a group of stars that are spatially close to each other. Clusters tend to have shared economies and trade as the distances for the transportation of goods is small. Separating the sectors from the Fringe and Droid space is a Light Jump Net. This net will stop any craft Light Jumping through it in either direction. If a spacecraft Light Jumps though this one light-year thick barrier, it will be pulled out of its jump and all craft nearby (including Star Fleet) are automatically notified.
The Anatomy of a Sector
A Sector is represented as a flat map taken from above (looking down on the plane the galaxy spins in) for simplicity. A Sector is made from a mosaic of Clusters, which are groups of stars that due to their proximity share a common culture and economy. In ancient times, a Cluster would be considered a nation. As you move away from the centre of the arm, the number of Systems diminishes and Clusters are spread far apart. Light jumping spacecraft take longer to travel between stars in The Fringe and Lone Systems.
The Central Arm: The central arm is the name given to the bright section running down the centre of the sector.
Clusters: A line between each of the sections are the markings defining clusters. Those clusters that are dark have many stars, the lighter have fewer.
The Fringe: The area outside the Light Jump Net is the top and bottom edges of the image. The exception to this is the white line, which shows the Light Jump Net.
The Lone Systems: Those Systems on the very edge of the galaxy are far from Imperial control. A good definition for what makes a Lone System is that it takes at least ten days to travel to a Lone System.
Sayshell
First populated in the 11th millennia, Sayshell began as a centre of learning and commerce. It remained so until Star Fleet moved its operations there during Aran War.  Since then, The Star Fleet has protected and looked after Sayshell more so than any other sector. When the war against the Droids looked like all was lost, the Fleet spontaneously retreated to Sayshell and with the aid of Star Sci kept the Droids out. This is the safest Sector in Human Occupied Space.
Sayshell’s economy revolves around technology and learning with food production coming a close second. Comparatively little is actually manufactured in Sayshell, although most inventions originate there. Sayshell does not have any Imperial Peers in control, it administers its colonial councils through Colonial Command. Sayshell is by far the richest and most technological system in the human space, by living there you are assured a job, even if it is in Star Fleet.
Dorian
The War of Dorian was the closing chapter of The Droid War, where Star Fleet had a limited presence (only due to its proximity to Sayshell) but the colonists who had retreated and fought their way out of every system up until then were not going to let Dorian and all its resources to fall to the Droids. Although the space was invaded, it was never entirely occupied, the human inhabitants giving a hard resistance. The Imperium soon took the sector back as the many systems yielded much needed resources that were not available in enough quantity in Sayshell. Dorian grew once more as the production centre of Human Occupied Space once the Droids were expelled. 
Now Dorian produces the most raw materials and technological goods of the three sectors and continues to grow economically. The Sector prospers despite poorly funded Colonies becoming technologically archaic. The people of Dorian prefer to fix only when broken, to do so before is waste. 
Remmar
Remmar was the last Sector to be successfully evacuated, leaving many of the Colonies intact. The onslaught of the Droids was met with empty Orbitals (space stations) and booby traps aplenty. When the Star Fleet eventually pushed the Droids out 2 years ago, they opened up a Sector largely untouched by war.
Remmar is a fledgling sector with one very important resource: food. As the human race grew in the other two sectors, it was soon clear that it would be impossible to feed everyone with the food processing available. Huge effort was put into opening Remmar and when it was finally opened for the general public to colonise, a quarter of the human population flocked there to start up crofts (small, self sufficient farms) and rejuvenate empty colonies. Remmar’s prime function is to produce food and allow private enterprise to flourish. 
Unfortunately, there is not yet enough resources coming out of Remmar to make Imperial Peers overseeing all the systems worthwhile. Star Civilisation is looking into assigning Peers to those places that are struggling.
Clusters
A whole Sector is a large area to administer without further sectioning. A Cluster is a clump of stars arranged in geographical proximity (they are near each other) and as a result of this share trade and economies. A Cluster can be any number of inhabitable Systems from 2 to 20. Below is a list of Clusters which are important to note. Detailed descriptions for the Anadar Cluster is included in the Scavenger Setting on page 97.
Your campaign is likely to be based in any number of Clusters.  These Clusters are well-known and are detailed below as examples.
Akar Cluster
The Akar Cluster was first settled in 4002 by Jebediah Akarak. Jebediah believed that to lead a long and healthy life both Mind and Body must be expanded and pursued. The first colonies starved as the colonies split their time evenly between encouraging their mind state and doing duties on the farms. This lead to many harsh winters where hundreds died through starvation. The food that was grown barely fed the populace, so little trade was possible. The cluster was quickly populated by people of the Akarak nation (many took surnames with ‘AK’ to show their affiliation) and slowly the wealth and power of these odd-ball people began to grow. This growth was massively aided by the Akarak Aid Fleet whose job it was to stop colonies from dying out.
Now the cluster is a thriving trade source as well as cultural centre. The strict Akarakian discipline lends itself well to trade as outside traders fell that the deal that they were getting will always be honest and fair.  The details of the Akarak nation are given later in the section Akarak Nation on page 60.
Baleris Cluster
Situated on the border between Sayshell and Dorian, the Baleris Cluster location has been disputed since the original pioneers landed on Zeff Orb in 6295. The Cluster was soon absorbed into the Akarak culture but took a slightly different spin on their ideals. Baleris was a cultural centre for Akarakians, allowing the Akarak people to have more freedom from the constraints of the Elder’s wishes. Times soon changed and the colonies in Baleris moved away from the Akarak way of thinking, it has kept its cultural significance and its leading system Acerine Prime is a good example of a system with all the good aspects of Akarakian ideas. 
The Imperial Crescent
Deep within the heart of Remmar, the Imperial Crescent is a cluster that resembles a crescent if viewed directly from above the Galactic axis. The Imperial Crescent was populated extremely quickly and is the home of the Empress, Star Scientifica and The Star Enforcers. The technology of the Imperial Crescent is second only to Arcturus (Star Fleet’s home in the Turus Cluster) but is also the centre of art and humanitarian issues as well. 
Many of the Interstellar corporations moved their operation to The Crescent purely for the prestige of being in the same cluster as the Empress. Trade, as you would expect, is blisteringly high around the cluster. The cluster also has a industrial edge, it is responsible for the production a huge amount of food which serves less fortunate clusters around it. The Imperial Crescent is a shining example for the rest of the human race.
Naggachef Cluster
This cluster exists within the Nagga and Chef nebulae, two massive clouds of gas which exist 5 light years apart, swallowing most of the cluster. The patchy sparseness of the nebulae (compared to other nebulae of similar size) allowed Colonies to grow where otherwise it would have been impossible. When Peter Nagga settled the first colony with his wife-to-be Gill Chef in the latter part of 5998, the colonists who had taken the gamble were quite cut off from the rest of humanity. Most traders would not venture into the Nagga or Chef nebulae for fear of collision. Once the nebulae were correctly charted, the systems became very popular indeed.
Naggachef contains many systems within its nebulae, most of these systems have many I class planets (some terraformed) and great, untapped natural resources. The cluster has two major systems Prem-Nagga, a huge I class planet with a massive farming industry and Prem-Chef, a medium I class planet with a huge tourist and pleasure industry. Those on any system within Naggachef are delighted by the ‘Nebularis’ or ‘sky lights’, the patterns in space made by the two swirling nebulae. Never do any of the systems have complete darkness, there is always a glow of red, green or blue.
Naggachef is the main food producing cluster in Sayshell, turning out enough food to feed a third of the population of Sayshell. Subsidiary industries include production and tourism. 
Niopak Cluster
‘Niopak Primus Retaris’ was first landed upon by James ‘Niopak’ Trenchard in 6156, life was very hard there. The colonists who settled there were more idealistic dreamers than realists. Artisans, writers, poets and drifters soon settled the many inhabitable planets surrounding Primus. They were not well suited to building and defending a colony but even through harsh winters, the Colonies grew. When the Romar Cluster began links in 6211, the colonies in Niopak strengthened, without losing the artisan core that permeated all the systems.
Today, Niopak is a very wealthy cluster, known for its fashion and for creating new trends and often being the centre of attention in Sayshell. Although there is quite a frivolous side to the Niopak cluster, there is a basis of hard fashion industry to support it all. Any item of day to day living is made fashionable, from Gaiacards to sports cars. Non-essential, yet highly sought after gadgets and trinkets are also produced in large quantities. 
Romar Cluster
Populated by Romar Smith in 6002, the founder only remained on the founding system (Romar Grand) for a space of five years. In those years, he managed to set up a self sufficient economy. He soon realised that the remaining systems around Romar Grand were ripe for the picking and squeezed Romar Grand for the resources for setting up more colonies around it. Later, he bored of colonisation, Romar began setting up trade links with the colonies. When Romar was 56, he had managed to populate 10 planets and was training his two sons (Andrew and Simon) all that he had learnt. The Romar Cluster is now the most powerful economic cluster in Human Occupied Space.
Romar’s strength is in its excellent adaption to changing needs. When Dorian opened, industry in Romar shrank, so they built extensive space docks to meet the demand for space craft. Currently, the Romar Cluster is gearing up to produce Orb Orbitals - huge space stations. Romar is often referred to as a ‘Nomadic’ Cluster as most of the cluster’s inhabitants are traders who do not tend to spend too long in one place.
Tef Cluster
Settled in 4142 by Norman Teffralliage (Tef), the Tef cluster is by far the most notorious and disreputable cluster in Imperial space. Within the Tef systems there are two sets of laws. The first set is Imperial Law, by which any respectable person goes by. ‘Fralliage’ law is the widely adopted law based on the principle ‘You can do what you like if no-one is watching’. 
Corruption, theft, political overthrow are common place in Tef. However, people still enjoy living there because it is out from under the thumb of the Imperium while still remaining inside the safety of the Light Jump net. Tef also includes a very high percentage of I class planets (about 40%!), Although most of the climates are very harsh on those living there, they do still count as I class. 
The Turus Cluster
Since the The Star Fleet was first created as Stella Fleet in 5800, the Turus Cluster (1 on the Sayshell Guide) has been its home. Boasting the largest colonies and Orbitals (space stations), the Turus Cluster is the centre of technology and learning. The Turus Cluster produces enough food to trade excess; training and spacecraft for the Fleet. Its excellent central position leaves it open to trade from the other Sectors and is by far the most advanced Cluster in Human Occupied Space. 
Vitero Cluster
The ‘Blue World’ colony was founded in 6322 by Simon Vitero, from whom the Cluster takes its name. The ideals that the colony founded itself on were based within practicality. In the early years of colonisation, Vitero and his colleagues did well by saving time and effort for that which was absolutely necessary. The technological and agricultural output of the Blue World colony and the colonies that followed were excellent while the sociological advancements were minimal in the extreme.
Today, the Cluster still thrives on its principles of function rather than form. It is no surprise that the Mex building was designed here along with the laser-bladed harvester. Vitero also holds the headquarters of the Endotech shipwrights, along with a massive spacecraft manufacturing trade. The general public have little interest in visiting Vitero, which leaves its tourist trade dead and social colour bland.
Earth, Sol System
Earth is the 3rd planet in the Sol system and the origin of humanity. After the rapid expansion of the human race, Earth become forgotten as it was a painful reminder of the horrors of war and the human race’s barbaric past. Explorers often go looking for the location of Earth but never turn anything up. Most believe that Earth is now within Droid Space and not worth the risk looking for it.
The Imperium do not actively stop people looking for Earth but at the same time, they do not promote it. The Imperium claim that they do not know where Earth is, a favourite topic for conspiracy theorists.
Colonies
A colony is the name given to a dwelling on or under the surface of a planet. A colony can be a city (called a Mex city) or high tech farming communities (called Crofts) or a combination of those. Colonies are normally set up on planets where there is a gravity strength appropriate to humans (around 1 earth gravity) although some colonies use spacecraft technology to provide a bubble of artificial gravity. A quarter of the human race live in space stations, called Orbitals but they are not considered to be colonies.
Where Colonies Grow
Wherever there is a need for people to live, there will a be Colony. Colonies are built on planet surfaces (Prosurface), under the surface (Subsurface) or under oceans (Subaqua).
Prosurface
Any colony on a planet where the air is nontoxic to humans is a Prosurface colony. Roughly 60% of colonies are Prosurface colonies. Earth in the 21st Century was a Prosurface colony.
Subsurface
Any colony where the atmosphere is not breathable is called a Subsurface colony. These colonies are normally huge caverns buried deep within the surface of the crust, sealed to the harmful atmosphere. Within these caverns are cities, much the same as on Prosurface planets. Access to the colony is through many huge circular tunnels called ‘vents’.
Subaqua
Any colony built under an ocean of liquid (not necessarily water) is a Subaqua colony. Subaqua colonies are Cities built on the inside of giant spheres. Gravity in the spheres points toward the nearest inside face. All the buildings reach into the middle of the sphere. The large spheres are interconnected using a system of tunnels. Spacecraft dock on the outside of the spheres - space inside is usually too precious.
Colony Buildings
The Droid War turned the human race into a race of refugees. A tsunami of people flooded from invaded Sectors into Sayshell. At first, they lived in repurposed spacecraft but those craft were soon needed to help other refugees and spark off trade. The Imperium responded with prefabricated buildings. 
There are two main types of building: Crofts and Mex Cities. Crofts are smaller buildings, made to house farms and holiday homes. Mex Cities are huge lattice structures with tall, straight buildings connected together with structural walkways, providing strength. Mex cities are by far the most popular buildings as they are cheap, very quick to construct and do not take up much of a footprint.
Crofts
A typical croft building is a circular hut which has a domed roof. On the ground floor is where all the utility equipment is kept, including generators and for larger croft buildings and any vehicles. The upper floor is the living space. The more people that live in the croft, the larger the diameter of the building is to be. Every living space has a sky view through the domed roof and all rooms are on the edge of the building.
A typical croft has a diameter of 15 metres, large ones can go up to 50 metres. There are many different designs on offer, with many different interiors of all qualities. A simple Croft (including installation fees) costs 10 000 credits. Permission needs to be granted by the local Council (which it normally is) before one is installed.
Mex Cities
Found in all colony types, a Mex city is made from many levels stacked on top of each other. Each level has a particular template so that level with differing purposes can be stacked easily. Each building stands alone, connected to other buildings by walkways which people walk through. Lifts run up and down the corners of the building, each powered by Grav.
Although this prefab system of building is normally followed, each system does have its own special character which can be seen in the colours and layout of the buildings. Mex buildings on very different systems sometimes look very similar in shape. Mex buildings tend to be very tall and thin, a normal size for a building would be approximately 4km high with a footprint of 100m square.
In Mex cities, there are many ways of travelling. Inside buildings, people travel by foot, to move up and down the buildings are extremely fast lifts that can traverse hundreds of floors in seconds. Free transport is provided in all Mex cities by the Free Mass-Transportation System (FEMTS) which are large bullet-shaped Grav vehicles that run methodical routes around the cities. Personal transport is provided by Grav Cars and Grav bikes which are flying vehicles that travel between the buildings.
Living in a Mex city would feel like a very strange experience to those in the 21st Century. People tend to work near where they live, even in the same or neighbouring building. Nearly all humans live in a Mex city in one form or another as Mex cities can be built anywhere. Mex buildings can be repaired and constructed very easily, they can also be added to by lifting off the top level and add more levels in underneath. 
Mex in General
From a distance, a Mex city tends to look out of place within the landscape. This is because of the large square lattice work of the buildings. The edges of the city tend to be square and the can be built in any place (shown below in a valley). This is due to their sturdy structure and the fact that all vehicles fly in and out of the city, there are no need for roads, as such.
The ethos of the Mex city has lead to some standardisation in the layout. These standards are called The Imperial Polisat and they provide a perfect model for city designers to follow.
Typical Mex Plan
A. Town Centre
Pivotal to the running of the colony, the Town Centre is the home of all the main colony offices and comprises of several Mex buildings. The main building is the Council Office where councillors and their advisors organise new policy and manage planetary issues. Star Enforcer Colonial Building or SEC Building is where the Enforcers (Police) on planet reside. Often, the SECs have two or more buildings depending on size of the Colony. The Town Centre nearly always comprise of the tallest buildings in the City.
Star Civ have an important presence in the town hall. It is the location of their headquarters and also a central hub for the services it provides, including trauma clinics. A Mex city will have a large number of trauma clinics distributed around, the Town Hall will have several scattered between the top and the bottom.
B. Home Gateway
The Home Gateway or Home Gate is the star craft docking facility that is used by smaller, private craft and the large passenger carrying Pitlifters that deliver people to Orbit and the Star Buses. Smaller berths with more commercial aspects (such as hotels, retail shops) are clusters around this edge. Traditionally, the Home Gate is normally a very well kept part of the Mex City as it is normally the first place that the visitors to the city will ever see. The Home Gateway has the feel of an old-fashioned ‘airport’, with people waiting to travel or moving away from the Gate area as quickly as possible. Local populace normally leave the inflated prices of the Home Gate for the tourists and shop elsewhere. The Home Gate is often locally called something else, named after a founder or famous spacefarer.
C. Freight Gateway
This is the dock for larger spacecraft. These spacecraft tend to be huge hulks that carry a massive number of poly-ceramic-alloy space crates. Each of these freighters have only 100 crew but have many hundreds of automated ‘Hoppers’. Hoppers are flying robots designed to carry space crates to and from the freighter. When a freighter arrives, a huge swarm of Hoppers move cargo back and forth. 
The Freight Gateway has few bars and cheap hotels. Many crews prefer to sleep on the spacecraft but the hotels offer a change of scenery, live music and a range of local entertainment.
D. Hauler Port
Also situated at the base and on the edge of the city, the Hauler port is how goods are transported around the planet. A hauler is a large haulage vehicle which accelerates very slowly but can travel very fast indeed. This makes it perfect for long distances. 
Although mostly automated, the Haulers are normally piloted due to the mistrust of automated systems. Hauler ports tend to be poorer areas of the city as most of the Hauler pilots spend little time in the city, it is not looked after very well. The Hauler Port is also likely to contain many storage levels as it is not a desirable place to live.
In a Mex City
The picture (on the next page) shows a view from within a Mex city. The picture is looking down the middle of the city. To people who have lived on Crofts their whole lives, the Mex City will feel  claustrophobic, overcrowded and busy. The space between the Mex buildings is packed with traffic (only a small amount shown in the picture for clarity). Due to the regularity of Mex levels, it is very easy to navigate around a Mex city. 
A. Lift
Lifts travel up and down the corners of all buildings. Some buildings have lifts on the inside as well but the majority of people use the corner lifts. The lifts run on Grav and are not directly to connected to the building, so there are many (often as many as 200) lifts in one building corner. 
They are best thought of as independent Grav Vehicles that mainly travel vertically. Lifts travel at great speeds and one can travel at up to 20 meters per second (4 floors a second or 12 floors a game turn). Each lift has a powerful gravity field generator that keeps the occupants safe from the affects of huge accelerations. Lifts can pass each other in a corner, allowing lifts to overtake each other.
B. Walkway 
Walkways allow people to move from one building to another and are structural tubes that connect the Mex buildings together. Mex Cities with many walkways form a tight lattice, making the city as a whole very strong. Toward the centre of a Mex city, walkways are common and become more rare toward the edge. Traffic passes above and below these walkways and they sometimes travel at angles between the buildings. In any case, the gravity inside of the Walkway is always perpendicular to its floor.
C. Traffic
For those who can afford their own personal transport, there are flying cars called Grav Cars are used to move people around. As the volume of traffic in central areas of a city can be extremely heavy, people often choose to walk instead of driving.
Grav Cars fly through the city in lanes. Flying through the Mex City can be quite stressful to do at speed, so most people will switch on the Grav Car artificial intelligence and let it drive for them - picking the quickest route. An artificial intelligence will not break any driving laws and for those who want to dash through the City, they can drive on Manual (Pilot Grav skill check).
D. Free Mass Transportation System
The Free Mass Transportation System (FEMTS) is available in all major Imperial Systems. The FEMTS consists of a huge number of bullet shaped FEMTS cars. Unlike most old-world free transportation systems, the FEMTS is normally the pride of the city, clean, reliable and always on time. FEMTS cars are unmanned, it is only the passengers who travel on it. The car is controlled by an artificial intelligence (AI power 2) which senses other traffic in Gaia and then makes decisions on the best route to meet its stops. The FEMTS is widely used by many, as a safe alternative to owning one’s own car.
More affluent Cities adorn their FEMTS with bars, relaxation rooms, massage parlours and brothels. Regardless of their internal fittings, the external bullet shape is standard.
E. The Nearground
The Nearground is the place where those not content with normal society go to live. See the later section The Nearground on page 40.
Colony Council
Administration of the Colony is performed by the Colony Council. The Council is democratically elected every 4 years. Councillors are drawn from the wealthy, famous or purely on merit. The positions on the Council are: Chair, Industry, Treasury, Trade and Domestic. Two extra seats are appointed by the Imperium: Star Enforcer Captain in Charge and Star Civilisation Captain in Charge. Some councils have extra members depending on their local situation - such as a council member for Mining activities.
Councillors can serve as many terms as required and each Councillor is given a budget from the Imperium (via Taxes) and employs a staff. The taxes are used by the Council to grow the colony, provide services, perform maintenance on the infrastructure, subsidise trade negotiations and support flagging industries. Council Staffers wield much of the Council’s power as negotiators and advisers to the Councillors.
The Council are constantly in the public eye, their decisions having real and often immediate affects on the population of the colony. Although there are no party affiliations, councillors often hold onto Human philosophies, by which they make their decisions (see Philosophy on page 59).
To understand, gain connections and make use of a colony’s council, an Ecopolitical Skill check is required.
Chair
The Council Chair has the job of keeping order and making sure people do as they say they are going to do. The Chair is the public face of the colony and spends a lot of the day travelling around the reaches of the colony talking to people and investigating problems that might have been raised on a council meeting.
Treasurer
The Treasurer is responsible for ensuring that the colony remains within its budget and that the Imperium is warned before they run out of money. Taxes are collected automatically by the Imperium over Gaia and the enforcement of tax collection is down to the Star Enforcers. Therefore, the Treasurer’s budget is derived straight from an allowance from the Imperium.
More enterprising Treasurers will seek to boost this income with donations from wealthy people and corporations, although this is not expected of them.
Industry
The aim of the Industry is to ensure that local businesses are supported and that there is fair competition on planet. The Industry Councillor also aids local businesses (using a budget) to help grow new industries or save important ones that are floundering.
The Nearground
In most Mex Cities, there is an area which is known as the Nearground. Typically, the Nearground is the area ‘Near to the ground’ - the first 50 metres of each Mex building where light rarely filters do to. The Nearground is where anarchists, socially dispossessed, poor and criminal elements of society live and work. The Imperial society is a liberal one and the Nearground provides a space for the fringes of society to meet, away from those playing by the rules.
The Nearground is where the order of Mex architecture descends into chaos. At ground level, the Mex buildings are difficult to discern, the core layout of the buildings augmented by gantries, walkways and buildings in a high-tech shanty-town. There is little traffic in the Nearground - only Grav bikes are small and nimble enough to drive quickly through the maze of architectural imagination.
Typical Nearground Locations
In the Nearground can be found brothels, seedy nightclubs, old-fashioned tea shops, non-Star Civilisation doctors who do not ask questions, black markets, drug dens, cheap hotels, Grav biker hang outs and burlesque clubs. 
The Hauler port is also normally by the Nearground. Some of the Hauler crews are seduced by the Nearground but most remain professional and once away from their Hauler, travel to the higher areas of the City.
Star Enforcers and the Nearground
The Nearground is very difficult for the Star Enforcers to operate in. It can be very difficult to gather evidence of a crime as the anarchists refuse to co-operate and buildings rarely carry sensors. The Star Enforcers often return from the Nearground empty handed. The main exception is with particularly dangerous criminals, for which the Star Enforcers travel in great numbers and force.
The Mesh
The superstructure of the Mex buildings contains large air ducts and utility sections, this area is known as the Mesh. The ducts of the Mesh run everywhere throughout the Mex City. Some longer ducts run the vertical length of the 2km building. Although originally intended for repair crews to work without disturbing the general public, the Mesh has now become home to an outcast part of society, the Meshrunners.
The Mesh can also be found in Orbitals and some very large spacecraft. The Mesh could be anywhere, so the same rules apply.
The General Public are mostly ignorant of Meshrunners, assuming that the thieves and muggers come up from the Nearground in lifts.
Meshrunners
Meshrunners live in the Mesh, leaving only to steal food and money from the general public. The Mesh is a haven for those on the run from society. Most Meshrunners are children, teenagers and young adults; petty criminals, family outcasts or escapees from the constricts of their upbringing. As Meshrunners grow into adulthood, they usually leave the Mesh for the bright lights and opportunity of the Nearground - or even back into society. Few grow old in the Mesh and even fewer are born there.
Meshrunner Gangs
The Meshrunner Gang is a family. A tight knit group where  seniority is defined by time spent in the Mesh and ability; age is of little importance. Meshrunner Gangs tend to occupy an area of Mesh and rarely stray from their patch. A Gang’s area is normally across many buildings over a few levels. Friction and suspicion between Gangs is great - each Gang assumes the others are in league with the Star Enforcers, their parents or whichever organisation they are avoiding.
Running the Mesh
Moving through the Mesh is a Skill (Meshrunning) that can only be taught by another Meshrunner. Meshrunners use high tech climbing gear repurposed from common day items that can be hidden under clothing for when they are moving amongst the general public. Running the Mesh is extremely dangerous for the uninitiated as the Mesh is utterly dark and there can be sudden 2km vertical shafts. An experienced Meshrunner will know their Gang’s Mesh extremely well and be able to navigate it with only the faintest glow of light.
Becoming a Meshrunner
Meshrunners are always on the lookout for vulnerable children and teenagers. In most cases, these runaways end up in the Nearground and are unable to fend for themselves. Too young to work and susceptible to exploitation, Meshrunners offer the young outcasts a family life without any of the hassle. Some outcasts hear of the Mesh and go in search of it, which can be dangerous and difficult.
The Star Enforcers and the Mesh
The Star Enforcers would like the Mesh to be empty save for repair crews. In most cases, the Meshrunners do not draw any attention as their thefts tend to be small and based on subsistence. The Star Enforcers normally leave the Mesh alone as the time and energy spent rounding up Meshrunners is better spent elsewhere. Furthermore, proving a Meshrunner has performed a crime is difficult and the sentences are so short for the petty crimes that they would just return to the Mesh afterwards. Star Civilisation believe that a Meshrunner left uncaught is more likely to return to civilised society than one that is caught and punished.
Only when Meshrunners become a problem do the Star Enforcers get involved. The Star Enforcer Investigation branch have a number of Mesh teams. These are specially trained  and equipped bionic Star Enforcers who can move through the Mesh with great speed. It is rare that these teams are brought in to solve a Meshrunner problem. In very extreme cases, the Mesh of a building can be closed down entirely, suffocating all those within. This extreme measure has only been taken once or twice in living memory.
Using Meshrunners
Player Characters are normally ex-Meshrunners - people who have the Skills but do not run the Mesh anymore. Meshrunning Skills replace the standard Skills of a person’s upbringing (using Gaia, mathematics, science, social understanding) so it is not to be taken lightly. Meshrunners are not included in this book as a Character class as they fit into a very specific sort of campaign setting.
Meshrunners make useful contacts, although Meshrunners are wary of anyone outside of the Mesh. Trust must be gained first before a Meshrunner will do any work for a player Character. 
Once trust is gained, a Meshrunner is very useful - able to steal, overhear and rob people before blending back into society. Meshrunners do not use Gaia, so contacting them can be difficult and gaining one as a valuable contact is likely to be a haphazard affair involved in a chance encounter.
Scanning and Privacy
Scanning is the name given to using sensors to detect things that might be hidden from view. Sensors are fitted to buildings, spacecraft, vehicles (such as FEMTS) and anywhere where you want to ensure a level of security. There are two kinds of scanner: Tech scanners and Medical Scanners. A Tech Scanner analyses any piece of technology (weapons, bionic system, Automatons etc). 
A Medical Scanner scans biological life forms and is used for detecting a biological problem (diseases, illnesses, breaks, viruses etc). 
Scanners have levels of scan, the higher the level the more information provided. High level scans tend to take longer and need more power (and thus tend to be bigger). Details on the scanner levels can be found in Scanners on page 83.
Privacy
The Imperium guards the privacy of its citizens very carefully and as such, scanner use across Human Occupied Space is limited. Some colonies will ban any Technology scanning at all whereas more paranoid colonies will have invasive Tech and Med scanners (Level 2) everywhere. 
Most colonies will only have scanners where security is particularly important, such as in armouries or in Council buildings. Large corporations avoid using scanners, instead hiring humans augmented with bionics as their security teams to spot concealed weapons. It is not a fool-proof system but the Imperium would not allow a proliferation of scanning and the inevitable erosion of the right to privacy.
Colony Travel
A Prosurface colony spreads across and above the planets surface. There are common elements on every Colony (see picture).  
A. Large spacecraft that cannot enter the atmosphere either dock to an Orb (or Orbital) from where they can undock and Light Jump to other systems. 
B. Cargo is transported from orbit using Pitlifters, which are specifically designed to make the journey between orbit and planet surface. 
C and E. For spacecraft that can enter atmosphere, they dock either straight onto the Mex City (C) or the Croft (E).  The Croft would have to have a very large output to warrant a freighter going straight there. Some Crofts have  their own Pitlifters.
D. Cargo and people are transported between surface dwellings by high speed Haulers and sub orbital flyers (not shown). 
Time
When the first spacefarers left Earth, they abandoned the 24 hour clock in favour of a 40 hour day. As ships always needed to have a crew awake and active, a ship system was developed that was soon adopted as the normal for the whole galaxy. The days is split into four 10 hour cycles. Each cycle serves a different purpose. Between each cycle is a meal.
Sleep Cycle
During the cycle, a person get their rest. A human of 92030 only requires 9 hours sleep in 40 to function properly. The other hour is spent waking up and having the first meal called ‘Breakfast’.
Work Cycle One
This is the first ten hours of work. Some take two jobs, each with a 10 hour duration. After this cycle is a meal called ‘Lunch’.
Work Cycle Two
The second work cycle is normally a more relaxed affair as motivation begins to wane. After this cycle is the meal called ‘Dinner’.
Recreation Cycle
The recreation cycle is when a person can pursue whatever activities they are interested in. Most people have a hobby of some such. Before sleeping once more, a person normally partakes in a nutrient drink called a ‘Cap’.
As everyone is living in a synchronised 40 hour lifestyle, businesses stay open for all 40 hours. People tend to share jobs, one job between two. The passing of day and night has no effect on the cycles of a person, phrases such as ‘morning’ and ‘afternoon’ are normally used to express the position of the sun in the sky. 
Organisation of Years and Dates
Following the standardisation of time, dates and years followed suit. The organisation is as follows:
Minute: 60 seconds.
Hour: 60 minutes.
Cycle: 10 hours.
Day: 4 cycles (40 hours).
Week: 10 days.
Month: 4 weeks (40 days).
Year: 10 months (400 days).
The month names are the same as the Gregorian calendar, except November and December are omitted. Days are named as Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday, Sunday, Moriusday (after the previous Emperor), Solday (named after the system that bore the human race) and Thousanday (after the space station that became the cradle of human civilisation). Naming of the days has become unimportant as there is no weekend as such - people spend 10 hours of recreation every day. People simply refer to the date.
Public Holidays
Although business runs 40x40, regardless of day and night, there are still public holidays. Days during the week are not taken off and there is no ‘weekend’. The public holidays tend to mark events throughout Human Occupied Space (Empress’ Birthday) or locally (Cluster or System Founding day). Public holidays depend very much on the system. Those systems without much local history tend to have fewer, as do heavily industrial systems. Artistic colonies and those systems with a long history tend to have more public holidays.
The Star Chambers do not partake in public holidays as the employees are always on duty. In some cases, they take part but only in an official capacity. The only exception to this rule is the Empress’ Birthday when most Star Chambers throw a party. Only those on active duty do not. 
Day and Night
The connection with time and night and day is no longer important. Very few planets have 40 hour day and the human race has got used to sleeping at the end of the 30 hours, rather than when it gets dark. This is especially important on planets where there isn’t much night due to the light from large moons or on Orbitals, where day and night are simulated by glowing lights.
Money
The Imperium has one single currency, the Imperial Credit (or just Credit). Money value and flow is controlled by the Imperial Resource Chamber. There are no banks, you cannot get a loan and money is stored on small plastic cards, on a Gaiacard or in a person’s personal Gaia space (see section on Gaia).
No frills living in Icar is cheap. A cheap yet comfortable apartment can be rented for 100 credits a month and healthy meals cost as little 3 credits. A general price list is included in the Appendix (see the General Items Price List on page 161). Weapons, ammunition and armour are all relatively expensive as the Imperium believes that people should not need to buy them.
The Imperium raises taxes only through businesses. Corporations hand the Imperium a percentage of their revenue (not profit) automatically when doing business. It is possible for a Corporation to avoid paying tax but it is not advised as the Imperium will seize all assets immediately upon discovery, anyone found running a business this way will go straight to jail. Small time operations are ignored, which fosters the spirit of entrepreneurship.
All private banking (loans, interest on savings etc) is strictly forbidden and there is no stock market. Loan sharks do exist but are not used by the general populace. Interest rates from Loan sharks are extremely high and failure to pay can be deadly. Some colonies use their own currency but it is often for very ceremonial or tourist industries.
Space Stations
With the advent of powerful interstellar Light Jump engines, it became obvious that spacecraft could be made very large indeed. However, the amount of energy required to get these huge craft from orbit to surface and back was greater than could be produced with legal technology. One solution to this was to have a place in orbit where a craft could deposit some of its cargo for shuttling down to the surface. This is the prime reason for having an Orbital space station but they are integral to the economy.
More than just trade platforms or orbiting store rooms, an Orbital is often the gateway to the rest of Human Occupied Space. They are used for many different tasks such as acting as: a base of operations for a mining company, a dock for spacecraft repairs and the home for many people who dislike living on planet. The use of an orbital often changes focus through its life, normally beginning as a trade or base of mining operation and then growing with the population to become a more pleasant habitation or supporting large trade ships.
Space Station Types
Each Orbital is different from the others, however they do roughly split into two types: Orbitals and Orbs. ‘Orbitals’ is the name given to most orbiting space stations. They come in all shapes and sizes: sketch any design onto a piece of paper and that shape will be found somewhere in the Galaxy. ‘Orbs’ are space stations where an artificial world is created on the inside of a sphere.
Orbitals
Orbitals are common across the galaxy and come in bewildering variety of shapes and sizes. Some Orbitals begin life as a freighter, stranded in orbit by a loss of Light Jump capability. These Orbitals tend to be expanded in a piecemeal manner and tend to look light huge pieces of orbiting space junk. Other Orbitals are designed from the outset and like Spacecraft are a mix of sharp lines and organic curves.
Orbitals can house up to 2 billion people and the largest Orbitals (which rival Orbs in size) are 1000km at their widest. The haphazard structure of most Orbitals requires artificial gravity to be present everywhere. Those unfamiliar with an Orbital would find that the direction of the Gravity can often change, meaning shopping districts around the inside of a cylinder.
Transport in an Orbital
Getting around in an Orbital can either be done on foot, by driving a Grav or by FEMTS. Most people live close to where they work, shop and relax and so go by foot. This means than an Orbital tends to split into communities of people, not too dissimilar to Crofts on a planet’s surface. 
When driving a Grav, they are driven through huge tubes that run to most corners of the Orbital. These tubes are often irregular and connect areas of the orbital that are important. The FEMTS system also uses its own set of tubes, exactly resembling the FEMTS of Mex Cities.
Psychological effects of living in an Orbital
People who live in Orbitals tend to prefer enclosed spaces and can be agoraphobic (afraid of open spaces). Families that have lived on Orbitals for generations tend to be pale skinned and fair haired and are fiercely proud of their origin. Orbital inhabitants will have no problem with sharply changing gravity gradients and often make excellent Spacecraft crews.
The Orbital Explained
This image shows a simple example of a common orbital with the main sections marked out. The Orbital is drawn in orbit with the planet below it. The top of the Orbital picture is the part furthest from the planet surface.
A. The largest spacecraft dock onto ‘foils’ furthest from the centre. The most expensive external docking sections are at the top of the Orbital as it nearest to where spacecraft jump to.
B. Freighters can also dock on the upper reaches of an Orbital but this is normally only for short stays and rapid unloads. Normally executive and courier spacecraft dock on the upper reaches.
C. Every Orbital has at least one artificial biosphere where plants, trees, grass and wild animals live in a carefully balanced ecosystem. Expensive restaurants and apartments look out over the biosphere and most have public paths.
D. The ubiquitous Free Mass Transportation System (FEMTS) travels up and down inside the docking foils transporting people back and forth to freighters. Private Grav cars and bikes also travel up and down but rarely Haulers. Automaton Hoppers are used for moving space crates.
E. The main living space is crisscrossed with tubes that carry traffic. Smaller tubes (not shown) stretch out from the main tubes like veins, reaching throughout the superstructure.
F. Pitlifter shuttles travel back and forth between planet surface and the Orbital. The Pitlifter always docks internally and near the living space.
G. Internal space crate storage is expensive and normally only used by families, small businesses and spacecraft repair companies.
H. Spacecraft less than 2km in length can be accommodated in internal docking bays. This main reason to do this is for performing repairs in low-gravity atmosphere.
I. Most space crates carrying large quantities of raw materials (which are cubes 10m to a side) are stored external on a docking foil. If tens of thousands of space crates are to be loaded or unloaded, then spacecraft are often docked onto this foil and are serviced by a huge swarm of Automaton Hoppers.
J. Engineering is where the Generators, Grav Engine, Grav Field Generators are located. It is the hub of repair and refurbishment, populated by enthusiasts under the pay of the Orbital. Engineering is off limits to the general public.
Orbs
An Orb is the largest construction the human race has ever made. The Orb is an inside-out planet. A huge hollow sphere where the people live on the inside. The inside surface of the Orb is often as large as a large moon and contains continents, mountains and oceans. A huge artificial and yet self-sufficient ecosystem exists on the inside of these massive structures. Gravity is produced by localised Grav field generators, making sure the inhabitants have a constant gravity downwards, keeping them on the inside of the sphere. The atmosphere is created and maintained by a series of atmosphere processing plants that exhaust through the oceans. 
To give the inside a feeling of a planet, a huge light source (which is given a different name on each Orb, commonly known as The Solar) with a hood rotates in two axis in the middle of the Orb. This gives the appearance of light and dark. When looking ‘up’ on the Orb, you see the ground on the other side. During the day, the sun obscures the dark side of the world and the atmosphere gives a pleasant blue haze. Looking ‘up’ at night time, you will see a blue blur, without stars as if a moon was lighting high cloud.
The Orb is so large that the curvature of the surface is barely recognisable unless it is a clear day. Most people’s day to day lives can be lead without ever realising they were not on a planet. Under the crust of the inner surface is a huge number of manufacturing bays and zero-g workshops. Massive transit tubes take FEMTS all over the orb.
Orb Segments
An orb is made up of a huge number of triangular segments. Each segment has a very similar make-up. The diagram shows a cross section of the Orb. Transit tubes are used for moving around, although communities are created much like normal cities, towns and villages on any other planet. They are huge tube highways that curve throughout the structure of the Orb.
Most people live in cities, towns and villages on the inside and commute to the outer skin. 
Social Considerations
Due to an Orb’s size, there is more than enough room for everyone to live on the surface, regardless where they actually work. On a few desirably located Orbs, space can be at a premium and one can own a share of the surface. This makes the Orb much like any other planet, with large Mex cities for convenience and then out-of-the-way places of beauty for the rich.
Psychological effects of living in an Orb
Unlike on an Orbital, the inhabitants of an Orb are unlikely to become agoraphobic (fear of open spaces) as the surface provides a wide-open space, akin to a planet. Claustrophobia (fear of closed in spaces) is also unlikely as the human subconscious knows that it is on the inside of a giant marble. 
Where Orb dwellers have problems is with Convexophobia. Convexophobia is the irrational fear of slipping off a planet’s surface. In an Orb, the ground curves up at the horizon (concave), giving it a bowl shape. On a planet surface, the ground curves down at the horizon (convex), giving the appearance that things can slide off the side of the sphere.
Administration
Due to its size and general resemblance of a planet, an Orb always has its own administration and will have a councillor on the seat of the controlling planet of the system. In systems where an Orb has a larger population than the planet colony it orbits, the Orb will have a Council.
Charges for Orbs tend to be far lower than on an Orbital as there is so much more space. Also, they use a sliding scale. The longer you dock for, the cheaper it is. This sometimes leads to people abandoning craft on the Orb.
Jungle Orbs
When The Droid War started, many people fled Orbs in search of a safer planet surface; the rational fear being that Orbs were easier to destroy than an entire planet. As such Droids often left Orbs alone - their ecosystems intact. Left unchecked the wildlife of the inside of the Orb would spread throughout the superstructure. These Jungle Orbs often do have people living on them but life can be difficult there as the flora and fauna constantly encroaches on crops.
Jungle Orbs are rare in Sayshell and most common in Remmar and the edges of Dorian. As Jungle Orbs are often the product of a rapid mass evacuation, they often contain treasures abandoned by those too preoccupied with Armageddon to think about what is being left behind.
Orbai
The Orbai (pronounced Orb - eye) is the name given to the Artificially intelligent brain that controls the general running of the Orb. The Orbai is considered the same as the Artificial Intelligence on a spacecraft. The Orbai can be used as an information source for the inhabitants and normally has an avatar Automaton that represents it. 
The Orbai is very careful not to intrude into people’s lives and only has sensors where it requires them for controlling the Orb. The Orbai is not allowed to go through Ascension and is capped at Artificial Intelligence Power 4 (see Artificial Intelligence Power on page 55).
The Orb Explained
A. Spacecraft less than 2km long can use the Radial Tunnels to enter the atmospheric area of the Orb. It is expensive to do so and not encouraged.
B. The Solar gives the Orb a day and night cycle. Normally it’s set to 12-14 hours. For clarity the diagram shows daytime across the Orb but in reality, the right hand half of the Orb would be shrouded in darkness half the time. The sun is powered centrally and hangs on Grav, unsupported by wires. It lets out a Sun-like UV balanced light. Orb dwellers often proudly declare that twilight and dawn on an Orb is more beautiful than any in nature.
C. As the Orb is a fully functioning ecosystem, it also has clouds like any normal world. The atmosphere is regulated by carefully control plants and algae located under the seas. Orbs can be set up to be temperate, arid, cool or any combination of conditions.
D. A Mex city. People live in Orbs much like any other colony. Very few people live anywhere other than the surface.
E. Storage and heavy industry is found under the land mass, huge caverns that stretch for miles are organised entirely by an army of Automatons.
F. Crofts. An Orb has the advantage of being self-supporting by growing its own food. Croft output tends to be very high as the environment can be controlled with great ease compared to a planet’s surface.
G. Radial Tunnels measure more than 5km in diameter and connect the outer skin to the inner atmosphere. They are used for spacecraft docking inside, service craft and pleasure trips.
H. Every Orb uses seas to help regulate the environment and provide a source of sustainable food in the form of plants and fish. Early on in an Orb’s life, it is the seas that provide while the land gains it nutrients.
I. The area under the surface of the landmass is called the Hull. The hull is used for industry such as factories and raw material processing. Few people live in this area.
J. The outer Hull is where the Orb generates its power, contains its generators and Grav systems to maintain orbit. Unlike Orbitals, Orbs have millions of smaller generators and always produces a great deal more power than it needs. It also provides a place for most spacecraft to dock.
K. The Outer Skin is a 20km thick armoured metal skin, pock marked from years of meteorite impacts but tough enough to withstand collision with just about anything. Thousands of huge iris airlocks allow spacecraft through. Orbs are too large to have shields, so this thick skin is the only protection with space.
Space Travel
Since mankind strode upright and gazed upon the night sky it has wondered what it would be like to visit the tiny points of light that hung overhead. Space Travel is commonly available though generally unused by the bulk of the populace. Space travel is either a requirement of work, a lifestyle or used for entertainment purposes. Purely recreational planet hopping is rare. The instability of the space-time continuum causes many dangerous places called Void Faults. Most are charted and can be avoided. Some can be detected from a distance (in time or space), others come and go at such speed, that the craft can be enveloped by them before they can be avoided.
Travelling in space will inherently involve a few calculations. To keep them simple, travel operates in multiples of an hour. There are many facts and figures scattered through this section. They are collated at the end for easy reference.
Reading Sector Maps
The Sector maps from Human Occupied Space can be found in the Appendix. The map below shows a portion of Remmar. Space is curved and not two dimensional so the maps are an approximation to reality.

A. Cluster. The coloured blobs are clusters and the white between them are notional edges of those clusters. The nearer to red (or darker the grey) the Cluster is, the more colonies it has. A colony can number only 100 people, but it still counds.
B. Named Cluster. Some of the maps have named Clusters. These named Clusters are described in this book. Only Anadar has a full description as it is the Cluster used in the included Scavenger Setting.
C. The Zero Line. The Zero Line is a grey line that runs down the centre of the galactic arm. It represents 0 in the grid. 
D. Rim 1. As an example, the horizontal line underneath ‘D’ is the first line towards the Rim.
E. Spin line. The vertical lines are spin lines, and number ‘up’ from right to left. The spin lines are labelled along the bottom of the graph and are not shown here for simplicity.
Using the Grid
The grid is used for finding Clusters. The horizontal lines are called either Hub or Rim lines. The lines above the white Zero Line are Hub lines. This is because if you carried on in that direction, you would head toward the centre of the galaxy. 
Horizontal lines below the Zero Line are Rim lines. This is because if you headed in that direction (down the page), you would be heading out of the galaxy. The Vertical Lines are Spin Lines and they number right to left.
To locate a Cluster, first find the nearest horizontal Hub or Rim line. If it sits between two lines, choose the line nearest the Zero Line and call it ‘middle’. Next, you find the nearest vertical Spin line and if it sits between two, choose the lowest value and call it ‘Middle’.
For example, the Cluster labelled by ‘A’ sits between Rim lines 2 and 3. As the vertical Spin lines are not numbered on this example, assume its Spin line is 23. Therefore, the Cluster Location would be: Rim 2 Middle, Spin 23.
If the Cluster sits on the Zero Line, it’s called “Zero”. If it sits between the Zero Line and either Hub 1 or Rim 1, it is called Hub 0 Middle or Rim 0 Middle.
Examples of Named Clusters
For more examples, here are the grid locations for all of the named Clusters. You can find the Sector Maps in the Appendix. The Sectors are included for ease but they are not required as the Spin lines will give you the Sector you are in.
Remmar Sector
Juno Cluster: Hub 1 Middle, Spin 22
Tef Cluster: Rim 5 Middle, Spin 23
Anadar: Hub 0 Middle, Spin 28
Corisk: Zero, Spin 28
Imperial Crescent: Hub 2, Spin 37
Sayshell Sector
Vitero: Rim 4, Spin 47
Turus: Hub 1, Spin 41
Romar: Hub 6, Spin 54
Niopak: Hub 3, Spin 54 Middle
Naggachef: Rim 2, Spin 56 Middle
Dorian Sector
Akar: Hub 4 Middle, Spin 69 Middle
Baeleris: Rim 2, Spin 74
Reading Cluster Maps
A Cluster map shows the locations of systems and other features within a Cluster. Cluster maps are based on a 20 sided grid. Each box on the Cluster map represents one Light Jump unit. In one hour, you can move up to as many squares on this map as you have Light Jump on your spacecraft. All jumps take at least one hour.
Classifying Space
Before you can explore it, you need to know what you are dealing with. Space is classified depending on what is round it. Here are the main classifications of space:
Atmosphere. Not strictly space as such but the first step one must make before getting there. Atmosphere is classed as the first 20km between the lowest point on the surface (sea level) and space.
Low Orbit. Between 20km and 500km is low orbit. If a craft is not atmosphere capable, then this is the nearest to the surface it can get. Most large vessels use this altitude for the loading and unloading of cargo, although the expense of doing so is often prohibitive.
High Orbit. From 500km to 1000km is known as High Orbit. This is where the Orbitals exist and where Point To Point Light Jumps can be performed from.
System Space. Within the outermost planet’s orbit around a star is system space. In a place with few planets, the edge of system space depends on the gravitational pull of the star.
Dead Space. Dead space is the area that is not governed gravitationally by a star or its planets; the force provided by them is too weak to be useful to a non-Light Jump Grav engine. Most of space is dead space but you have to go a long way from a star to be in it.
Jobs in space
Travellers are often grouped by the job that they perform. Most regular travellers through space operate as part of a crew on a star craft. Although the particular jobs on each craft are varied - from medic through to pilot - the crew are normally classified by the job that the ship does. A few examples of these tasks are given below.
Imperial
The Imperium has 2 separate fleets. The largest Fleet is operated by the Star Enforcers and is used by Star Enforcers, Star Civilisation and Star Scientifica. The craft are mostly used for chasing criminals and for dealing with Pirates. Not all of the Enforcer fleet is well armed and are a mix of purpose built and converted civilian craft. The other fleet, The Star Fleet, is purpose built and created from the very best technology the Imperium has to offer. The crews are all Fleet personnel and represent a complete fighting force from fighter pilots to soldiers (called Troopers).
Trade
In this case, the term Trade is a very broad one. A craft that moves any item from A to B is considered a trade one. A trade vessel carries freight (raw materials or tech) or passengers.  Typically, a depicts the type of cargo it caries. 
For example, Ore freighters tend to be large and dirty, with large industrial automaton equipment. Tech traders tend to be smaller, high tech craft! The dynamics of space trade itself is dealt with later.
Courier
A courier picks up an item from one client and delivers it to another. They are more expensive than traders but give a more personalised hand-to-hand service: important for expensive or personal items. A courier is a regular space traveller and will build up a clientele of corporate and non-corporate customers. Excellent service will build a good name and this is essential for a successful courier.
Deep Space Scavenger Crew
There are billions of tonnes of abandoned treasure, and junk worth money. A Deep Space Scavenger’s (Scavengers) job is to find, repair and return for sale. Seen as the lowest of the low when it comes to ship crews, Scavengers spend their time in dangerous wrecks, hunting out cargo and objects of value. 
Within these floating shipwrecks could be any manner of dangers, from traps rigged by paranoid crew members on leaving the wreck to other Scavenger teams. The example setting pits you as one of these crews. See Scavenger Setting on page 97.
Cost of Space Travel
Space Travel is cheap and available to the masses. There are nearly always spacecraft berths available, although it can be difficult finding a spacecraft on a direct route. In most cases, the traveller will change at a large terminus Orbital. Costs of travel do change with location, the numbers given here are for a typical colony.
Buying your own Spacecraft
Brand new spacecraft are very expensive and the Imperium has outlawed loans. How you get hold of a spacecraft depends on what it is going to be used for. The most popular ways of getting hold of a spacecraft are (most expensive first):
Buy new from the manufacturer. Spacecraft can cost millions, so this is only for large corporations or the super rich.
Buying second hand from a corporation. Spacecraft are still expensive at 50% of the new price but for small corporations, this is often the best way.
Operate a Spacecraft for a Trade Company. Trade Companies loan spacecraft to crews and require a minimum amount of return each month. The better the craft on loan, the more return required.
Buy a junker. The best entry level spacecraft is an old refurbished  junker. These spacecraft come with only the basics but can be bought for as little as 25 000. Of course, you might spend a lot of time repairing the junker and it will not be as fast as a new craft but it will get you about.
The Starbus
The Starbus a public transport network that connects major systems and clusters together. It acts as slow, reliable and cheap transportation through the void. Starbuses are huge spacecraft that are more like permanently moving villages than spacecraft. As such the Starbus self-organises by wealth with the rich and poor being entertained in different areas. The Starbus is so large that they never go down to the surface of the planet but instead are served by Pitlifter shuttle craft (many have their own). 
Every Starbus has a limited number of berths that are set aside for free travel. The births are communal and cramp but the atmosphere is fun and free. Most Star Buses cap the time you can spent in a communal bunk to 1 month but this is rarely checked and it is common for some people to live for their whole lives in Communal bunks.
The Starbus also carries cargo but it tends to be the personal items owned by passengers.
Starbus Naturals
Starbus Naturals is the name given to people who permanently stay on a Starbus, using it as a means to see the Galaxy. A Starbus’s route often rarely circles back on the same system, it is a good way to see lots of different places. Naturals are considered part of the crew and family, although they serve no function but to pay their way.
Costs and Durations
The Starbus is a great deal slower than chartering your own spacecraft. The table below shows the costs and durations for different berths on the Starbus. Communal berths are free and cramps, a single room sleeps just one person, a suite is much larger and can sleep up to 4 - with a squeeze. Planetary travel is between planet orbits, Orbs and Orbitals. System travel is between two systems in the same cluster. Cluster travel is between two clusters. Intersector travel is not listed because the Starbus would take many months to cross into another Sector. If you want to change Sector, your best bet is to charter. For the price list see Travel - Star Bus on page 161.
Spaceflight Types
Faster than light travel has been a goal of the human race since the laws of physics made the speed of light a boundary. In normal space, it is a boundary but there is more to the space-time continuum than just normal space. This section will stay as free from science as possible. Every trans-light vehicle is given a Light Jump speed. This speed is the number of boxes on a cluster map the craft can go in 1 hour. A cluster is approximately 20 squares in diameter. Use this a rule of thumb for unknown clusters or the actual cluster pictures for use.
Grav
When travelling between ground, space and between planets in a system, Grav is used. Grav works by ‘surfing’ down the waves created by celestial objects (stars, planets and moons). With Grav, it takes approximately 1 hour to travel between planets, 10 minutes between a planet and a moon. These figures are ship-independent as the waves that the Grav surfs on are the same for all the different craft. The time from low orbit to planet (or vice versa) depends on the power of the Grav engine and varies from ship to ship. It’s normally about 4 hours. The time between Low and High Orbit is small and thus can be ignored.
Grav suffers from zero gravity deficiency. This means that if the Grav engine is in a place where the gravities of objects around it cancel out. This dead zone is rare and is unlikely to last for very long but will cause the Grav ship to be stranded.
Light Jump
A Light Jump is a method of traversing a huge distance of space in a fixed amount of time. A jump lasts one hour. At the end of which, you can jump again. The jump is in a straight line (there is no such thing as a straight line as space is curved, but simplified for ease here). All jumps last one hour, the faster the ship is, the further you go. This is because the ship takes most of this hour to accelerate and the major part of the travelling is done in the last ten seconds. Thus, if a ship can go at 20 and needs only to jump 10, it will still take an hour. All of the calculations required to cover long distances are performed by an AI and thus the crew of the ship can rest or perform other tasks while the vessel is in transit.
For a Light Jump engine to form a bubble in which to jump, it needs to be in a gravitational low. This means away from any system or large celestial objects and clear of other craft (by 1 minute). 1 hour outside of system space is typical. Thus, a Light Jump can only be performed in dead space. This is a pain because you need to travel to the edge of the system before you can leave.
Light Jumps are susceptible to space-time faults. A ship is likely to come out of jump immediately when encountering one - requiring the vessel to make another jump. It is uncommon that any damage will be done to the Light Jump engine unless it is old or already damaged.
TIP: Light Jumps of this kind are old-fashioned and rarely found on modern craft. Most craft use Point to Point Light Jumps (given below).
Point to Point Light Jump
The original Light Jump engine design is millennia old. The Point to Point Light Jump engine (PTP) takes sensor information, an improved star chart and more accurate engine for precise jumps. The PTP is very much like its old variant, except for two major points:
1. PTP can begin a jump from high orbit, as long as it is clear of any Orbitals.
2. PTP can end a jump within system space of another system but may not jump straight into high orbit.
PTP requires more power, and cannot be fitted on very large craft. For large craft with PTP, the engine and generators for it take up most of the vessel. PTP is mostly found in small executive and charter vessels (as might be used by couriers in a hurry). PTP is also four times as expensive. This is not so much the future of space travel, more of an alternative present.
Curve Surf Engine
Rumoured to be invented by a number of rogue Star Sci scientists, the curve surf engine has unofficially been used by the Star Fleet for a few thousands of years. Curve Surf is a technology more like Grav than Light Jumping. Like Grav, it surfs down the gravity supplied by celestial objects, it does this beyond the speed of light. Because of the gradual acceleration offered by this surfing, the light jump bubble can be kept open indefinitely. A vessel using Curve Surf can also change direction in mid jump. 
As curve surf has a more accurate sensor pack and can change direction, it is less susceptible to time-space faults. Also, Curve Surfing can begin from anywhere in System Space.
The largest difference between Curve Surf and typical Light Jump Engines is that the speed of Curve Surf depends on the pilot. In Light Jump Engines, it does not matter what part of space you’re flying through, the distance you travel given in one hour has a maximum. Curve Surf depends on the ability of the pilot to intelligent plot routes through space. This can be achieved by an AI, but the nuances of space an human flair will always achieve better results. Thus, for each ship equipped with Curve Surf, two light jump speed are provided: one if a Pilot Cruiser Skill check is successful and one if it is not. 
For example, The Gaterunner is equipped with two engines, a Curve Surf (CS) and a Point to Point (PTP). You can choose to use either. They are listed as: CS: 8,16 / PTP:12. Use the PTP and you go 12. However, if you use the Curve Surf and pass your Skill check, you can go 16! Or if you fail, you only go at 8.
Curve Surf is expensive. Most engines are created specifically for a vessel and that vessel is likely to have a very powerful set of generators. Few craft are produced with a curve surf engine although it is possible to find an engineer (Street Deal with Taxing difficulty) to build a custom one. The cost of such an engine and upgrade will be approximately the cost of the space craft when it was new.
Typical Craft Systems
Spacecraft vary in technology widely from the basic freighter to the most expensive executive cruiser. There are some basic systems that are found on most craft. 
Typical Craft Systems
System	Description
Hull	Able to withstand the shock of meteor collisions.
Generators	Huge power sources from which all power on the craft derives. Spacecraft do not use fuel, all their power comes from the Generators.
Life Support	Air and food processing for indefinite survival (they have their own generators).
Grav Engines	Engines use the Gravity of nearby objects to move around. A Grav engine is used for sub-light travel between planets in a system.
Light Jump Engines	Engines used for moving between systems and clusters.
Energy Web	The power distribution system around the craft.
Sensors	Mostly used for detection of collisions and for avoiding space-time faults.
Grav Field Generator	Creates an artificial gravity on the ship. Can be localised to allow any surface to be walked on.
Grav Lock	A device for keeping the atmosphere ‘in’ where the hull has holes (airlocks and breeches).
Shields	An energy based defence that can be turned on and off. Invisible to the human eye.
Cargo Bay	A space for stacking crates.

Dangers in Space
Space is a dangerous place. It’s no wonder that most of the human population prefer to stay put. Most of the problems that occur in space are more of an irritation (costly to those who use space for business) than a risk to life. It is, however, unpredictable. This section deals with some of the problems that can occur, they are either space-time faults or not.
When everything has gone wrong then there are services operating within Human Occupied Space that can save you. The Star Enforcers will send help if there are any craft nearby but you will not be a priority. There is also the private corporation Void Rescue on page 64).
Quantum Singularities
A quantum singularity is the scientific name given to things that are inexplicable, unpredictable and really quite dangerous. They can arise without warning, be difficult to sense and can have a number of effects on a star craft:
Drop out of light jump. Can be caused by the singularity draining power from the generators momentarily or similar energy ‘blip’.
Incorrect Sensor Readings. Either echoes from times past or reversed sensor information is another often occurrence with singularities. The sensor information of a planet may momentarily pop up in the path of ship (causing a drop out of light jump).
Weirdness. Alterations in gravity on ship, atmosphere conditions or the biological state of the crew are all part of deep space weirdness.
Total Energy Shut Down. Perhaps the worst-case scenario, this would involve the main generators shutting down completely. Restarting generators can often take days.
Worm Holes
These are tunnels that connect different places in the space-time continuum. They exist for spaces of time and are then gone. Some do re-occur, but those are not dangerous: they are listed amongst the star charts as avoids. If a light jump takes a craft through a worm-hole then the position of the craft in space and time can be somewhat random. There is a 50/50 chance that a Light Jump Engine will come out of light jump before entering the worm-hole, in this case, it can be avoided.
Worm holes are not to be entered, they are extremely dangerous and a craft must be specially designed to cope with the huge pressures and energy flux within the tunnel.
Energy Ripples
When a celestial event occurs (such as a star exploding - a super nova) then a huge sphere of ripples spreads out, leaving very little where the star once was. When this occurs, huge ripples of energy are left travelling, getting weaker as they spread. However, there are areas where they may gain energy and when this occurs they can become dangerous once more.
The least a ripple will do is drop a craft out of light jump. With more powerful ripples, the ship may be push off course and damaged as well. The worst an energy ripple can do is to carry the ship through the light jump net into the lone systems and cripple it. 
Asteroid Fields
When celestial objects explode, they leave debris. Unless there is some sort of a gravitational field to do this, they will remain in rings and spheres. In most areas of space, these are charted, but they can move and the detonation of stars can cause their satellites to become asteroid fields.
The worst a field can do is drop the craft out of light jump. If the field is large enough to do damage to the vessel, then it will be detected early on.
Super-Dense Nebulae
A nebula is a huge cloud of gas. Most nebulae are harmless, the major bodies within it mapped out such that travellers may not have a collision. Dense nebulae are more dangerous as they hold stars being born. The energy involved in such a process can cause energy ripples (see above).
Astrofailure
This is the name given to any fault or failure within the craft. This can occur of very old vessels. Most vehicles have an AI which can scan for problems within the ship. However, the difficulty is not always detecting the problem, but solving it.
Total energy loss is the worse case scenario. If the generators shut down then there is no power to go anywhere and help must be summoned. 
Gravity Nulls
A Gravity null is a point in space where the gravity pull of surrounding stars cancel out. This is a problem for Grav engines and Light Jump engines because they all require a Gravity source to push or pull against.
If you find yourself in a gravity null, you could be stuck there for minutes, hours, days or years.  Gravity nulls can be both predictable (listed in Star charts and avoided) and unpredictable. They can pulse on and off and some are even used by pirates, who lie in wait for a spacecraft to come to a halt.
Pirates
Uncommon in Dorian, common in Remmar and impossibly unlikely in Sayshell, pirates are those people with armed craft that attack other craft. Depending on their motives and the Captain, the pirates may just take the cargo or murder the crew as well. They normally choose soft targets (or those that look soft). Most pirates are well organised and educated, researching their targets and finding fences for the cargo before attacking. It is often thought that Pirates are amongst the best-trained ship crews.
The Dynamics of Trade
Trade is the movement of resources from one system to another for money and happens for three reasons. 
Firstly, trade occurs because a system requires a certain resource to continue operating. For example, a sub-surface colony may need a supply of oxygen. This is called an obliged trade route. Failure to complete this route can mean a fine and even a banning of spacecraft use. Often, if the trade route does not appear profitable enough, then the Councils it serves will add a subsidy; after all, the welfare of the system is at stake.
Secondly, a trade route may exist between two planets where there is mutual benefit. In one direction there may be flow of food and water from an inhabited planet and in the other direction technology from a planet strong on manufacture. These routes are controlled by the Councils on the planets and are sold to particular traders to operate them. No one else may run that cargo on that route unless there is an increase in demand. This is called a secured trade route.
Finally, a trade route between two systems where there is profit to be had. This is a more traditional route and they make up 80% of the total number of routes. These are called free trade routes.
Space Travel Facts and Figures
A Light Jump takes 1 Hour.
A ship’s light jump speed gives the number of cluster squares travelled in a single jump.
A cluster can be considered to be 20 cluster squares across.
A craft must be 1 hour outside the system (outermost planet) before it can light jump.
On Grav, it takes 1 hour to travel between planets.
On Grav, it takes 10 minutes to travel between a planet and a moon.
Unless otherwise stated by the spacecraft sheet, it takes 4 hours to go from Low Orbit to the planet surface.
From Low to High Orbit takes a very small amount of time and can be ignored.
Gaia
The name Gaia used to refer to ‘Mother Earth’, a mystical being that protected the human race’s original home, Earth. Such romantic mysticism has long since died and Gaia is now known as the computer network that the human race uses to communicate.
Created during The Droid War, Gaia is a huge virtual world that mimics the real world as well as the creators will let it. As the technology was created after the war had started, the Droids cannot use it. It exists within Imperium space, outside of which there is no Gaia at all. A detailed description of Gaia is included in the Technology section. A brief overview for the casual user is included here.
Internet and Gaia Comparison
21st Century	923rd Century
Computer	Rayengine
Memory stick with programs and personal information	Gaiacard
Online shop	Gaia Volume, a 3D world that mimics the real world version.
Program (App)	Entity
Forum / Twitter account identity	Isis

Gaia can be accessed for free by anyone. There are millions of cylindrical public terminals everywhere. 
Upon stepping into a Gaia terminal, the person is standing in the virtual world of Gaia. From there, the user can navigate around - visiting the Gaia representations of the real world anywhere in the Imperium without physically moving location. In large cities, these representations are likely to be more impressive than the real world counterparts. 
Anything that has a Rayengine (computer chip) appears on Gaia, the shape of the real world object hard-wired into the Gaia version (with one exception - the hand-held terminal. See below). 
Active and Passive Gaia
Gaia is used in two ways. Active Gaia allows you to run your own intelligent software, called Entities. Passive allows you to do everything but use your own Entities.
Passive Gaia
Using a public terminal without your own Entities running is known as passive Gaia and is how the majority of people use it. Using Gaia passively allows you to interact on the very basic level: watching news or sports, buying products (by exchanging money) or meeting friends in a distant Cluster. When you use Gaia passively you look exactly like you do in the real world.
Example: To make a call to a friend, you step into a terminal and give the name and location of the person you want to speak to. Gaia will perform a simple search to find them and then zip you to their location. Your physical body has not moved but the 3D Gaia projection will have changed to the world where your friend lives.
Active Gaia requires the ownership of a Gaiacard (sometime called a Gaiacard in slang). A Gaiacard has a toolkit and an individual and unique identity called an Isis. This Isis is represented as a shape. You may have an Isis that looks different to yourself (such as a Dragon or giant robot) although it is not considered chic or adult to do so. A Gaiacard also allows you to have your own set of controls, such as personalised driving controls for your car or a set of hacking tools for getting into other people’s systems. Most people make do without one, though. A few people have the terminal and Gaiacard installed in their head (see Bionics Section). This makes them very powerful Gaia users. One of the Gaiacard tools of interest is the ability to lock a terminal.
Immersive and Tanked Gaia
Immersive terminals are those where the terminal surrounds you, like the public Gaia terminals. Most people will have an immersive Gaia terminal in their apartment or Croft house. 
Tanked Gaia is where a portal terminal is used to contact Gaia. Portable terminals are mostly used for quick calls, checking sports scores or sending messages. It is more difficult to ensure that the Gaia call is kept private.
For those with Gaia bionics, all interactions with Gaia is immersive, even when they are light years from the nearest terminal.
Psychological Effects
A Gaia terminal reproduces reality perfectly: sights, forces, smells and sounds are not differentiable from the real world. The AI controlling the terminal will not let harm come to you. The only thing that stops you from believing that you are in reality is a psychological effect called Reality Gravity. This is a feeling that something is not entirely right. It can be suppressed for a few days, but after that it is clear that something is not right. There are those people that believe that Gaia is more real than the real world - often leaving their bodies to rot in the real world as they experience a massive galaxy of soap operas, shopping, other people, news, features, history documentaries and more.
Hard Light
The technology that allows people to interact with this virtual world is called Hard Light. Hard Light is a technology where a hologram can apply a force. There is a limit to how much force it can apply but these complex objects can be used to fool the senses. A Hard Light table can be made to feel like wood, glass, water or wind. Being in Gaia, the laws of physics need to be obeyed but the table can be made to act as the artist wants. Hard Light objects can exist in Gaia rooms or within the projection sphere of a Tanked terminal. The act of these objects appearing is called ”rezzing”.
Generic and Unique Hard Light
Hard Light objects can be generic or unique. A generic object may be copied within Gaia but a unique object is exactly that - no copies may be made.
Like any piece of art, the cost of a Hard Light object depends on the artist, its rarity, its complexity and fashion. Unlike real world objects, they can be carried on any Gaiacard, and rezzed anywhere. In this way, people can carry all their home furniture around with them on their Gaiacard, literally taking their homes with them. Hard Light objects are bought and sold across Gaia.
Most rooms within the more modern colonies are immersive Gaia rooms: living rooms, bedrooms, cafes, medical facilities and shops. The furniture of these rooms are all Hard Light objects, most are generic. For high rent rooms, unique objects will be scattered around the generic ones.
Entities 
A Gaia Entity is a program that runs in Gaia. An Entity is a Hard Light object too but unlike simple objects (tables and chairs) they are intelligent, autonomous programs. To own and use Entities, you must own a Gaiacard to store them on and fire them off. Once they have moved off the Gaiacard they are free roaming across Gaia and independent.
The most popular of all the Entities is the search Entity, that runs around the public spaces of Gaia finding out information given some search criteria. Once it has some information, it returns to where it was set (or around a list of places, looking for the Isis of the owner). You can search Gaia passively but the information tends to be rather superficial. A search Entity will make much better connections and provider more context to the information. In 21st Century terms, passive searching is using Google and adjusting search terms; In 921st Century terms, a search agent would be using Google even when your computer is switched off.
The Nexus
The Nexus is the name given to the Imperial Artificial Intelligence. The Nexus is the central location for all Imperial information and is used by all of the Star Industries and Imperial Councils. The Nexus performs three roles: an information store, an information retriever and a judge.
Information store
The Nexus automatically cross-references its data. Any  new information that is fed into the Nexus remains there. It is very difficult to remove it.
Information retrieval
This is the primary function of its intelligence. An Imperial worker can ask questions of the Nexus and a reply in the correct context will be given. By having a question and answer session with the AI, new connections between data (that requires the abstraction of human thought to make) can be forged. In this way, the Nexus learns from the humans that use it.
Not all information is available to everyone. Some parts of the Nexus have restricted access depending on the sensitivity of the information and who placed it in there. Details of Star Sci experiments, criminal records, Star Fleet battle orders and Imperium Law reviews are placed in their respective areas. Higher ranks tend to have better access although this is not accounted for across Star Industries.
The public areas of the Nexus are well frequented by those looking for the latest scientific developments, news on galactic economic trends and those requesting help with any matter.
Judge
The law boils down to a set of rules that are applied given evidence. The Nexus holds all evidence and makes entirely impartial judgements. Most feel that the Nexus is too easy on criminals but it is not the Nexus at fault here - it is normally a lack of evidence that causes the guilty to go free.
Hack the Nexus?
The Nexus personally takes offence to hackers and will automatically hunt down and destroy any Isis that it feels has represented a threat. It is very difficult to live in the Imperial society when an enormously powerful AI at its core is hunting you. Nexus hackers are usually caught very quickly.
Hacking
No system is perfect and that can certainly be said for Gaia. It is possible to create Entities that exploit imperfections in Gaia and so gain access to areas that are otherwise hidden from the public view. 
Hacking within Gaia is done within the rules of Gaia. You cannot hack Gaia itself. Therefore, Hacking is about exploiting the cracks and imperfections caused by the creation of the virtual world.
The rules for Hacking can be found in Hacking on page 19.
Undergaia
The Undergaia is the illegal side of Gaia. Hidden in the corners and cracks of Gaia are people and Entities that avoid the rest of society. The virtual world of Gaia is not perfect, nor complete and in the places where the designers have not yet filled will often exist Undergaia. The Undergaia is not a single place, it’s a collection of places across the virtual galaxy. 
The Undergaia began as secret meeting places for exchanging thoughts, rumour and information useful for those engaged in illegal activities. In modern times, it is so much more. The Isis belonging to criminals hide out in the Undergaia, using it as a safe place to start off their illegal Entities that often pass out into the rest of Gaia.
The Undergaia persists due to the huge market in stolen unique Entities and more simple Gaia objects. 
One way in which the Undergaia managed to avoid being used by the Enforcers as an inroad into the criminal world is by flooding the Undergaia information centres with false information. Unless you know how to move through the enormous amount of misinformation to the real information (the Hacking Skill can be used with Research to perform this function) then it can be difficult to find accurate answers to your questions.
Accessing the Undergaia
The Undergaia can be accessed by passing a Hacking Skill check. A Hacking Skill check is then required for each piece of information that the character needs. It is not possible to ‘bookmark’ locations in the Undergaia, you must hack to find a new entry point even if you have been there before.
If the team does not have anyone with the Hacking Skill, then they must attempt to find someone who can access the Undergaia either by using contacts or by searching Gaia for people offering generic Gaia services, such as Information Brokers.
Enforcer Isis
Where there is crime, there are Star Enforcers and Gaia is no exception. The Star Enforcers are forever looking for the same kinks in the Undergaia that people wishing to use it. The Entities that the Star Enforcer Isis use are very powerful and so it is advisable to remain well clear of Enforcer Isis.
Enforcer Isis are not normally used for simply hacking into the Undergaia for information but instead used in conjunction with real world operations, providing data and support. 
Example: If the Star Enforcers are planning a raid, then the Enforcer Entities may be used to turn off the lights, drop fire doors or freeze the lifts to make escape more difficult. This is seen as a much better use of Enforcer time as hours can be spent hacking into the Undergaia and sifting through misinformation without any result.
Automatons
Perhaps the least popular technology, Automatons are intelligent machines that live amongst the human race. An important distinction should be made between robots, Droids and Automatons at this point. A robot is an autonomous device that can unwittingly harm humans but has no intelligence or intent (like a toaster). Droids are a type of Artificially Intelligent robot that are designed to destroy; Droids can kill. 
An Automaton is an Artificially Intelligent (AI) robot that has been hard-coded with laws serve to protect the human race. Furthermore, modern Automatons are programmed using Gaia and are therefore  impervious to the reprogramming attempts of Droids.
Classes
Automatons can be broadly split into classes. The class can indicate the types of job that the Automaton was designed for. Quite often an automaton is used for a job that they were not designed for but manage to do the task just as well.
Humanoid. The most common of Automaton. Human in shape and appearance, they are often created with unique personalities. To the human eye and touch, a Humanoid Automaton is indistinguishable from another human.
Utility. These Automatons are used in industry a great deal. Their form is normally an exaggerated humanoid and they quite often take the shape of Industrial Borgs. Utility Automatons are found on space docks and in mining operations.
Singular. This Automaton is normally constructed for a single purpose and is not used for much else. A good example are Hoppers: Automatons used for the sole purpose of moving space crates around.
Jobs
Automatons perform many of the menial tasks that humans could do but choose not to. Their form is often derived from this shape. For example, most Automatons working within human colonies are aesthetically indistinguishable from humans. They work in a human world and interact with humans and so are constructed by them. However, Automatons that work in mines or on construction sites have metal skins and are created for that purpose. Other jobs include:
Building cleaner
Construction worker
Corporate personal assistant
Corporate receptionist
Crate mover (called a Hopper)
Customer sales staff
Heavy lifter
Housekeeper
Miner
Nanny
Prostitute
Artificial Intelligence Power
Artificial Intelligence Power is Wit for Automatons and all other machines. The scale of AI is between 0 and 10. An AI Power of 0 would be typical machines from the 21st Century and a Power of 10 would be near enough to humans to make it very difficult to tell the difference.
AI Power also suggests the number of Skills that the Automaton can be expert at. This is not a hard-and-fast rule as older Automatons will have picked up more Skills than younger ones.
Growth
Artificial Intelligences grow over time with experience. The more varied and intense the experiences, the quicker their intelligence grows. For example, in 20 years, a machine of AI Power 1 can reach 4 or 5 as a crew on a spacecraft.
Ascension
Ascension is the process of an Automaton growing from AI Power 5 (Skilled) to AI Power 6 (Empathic). Ascension is a big deal from the point of view of the Automaton as it is the first step away from machine towards the individual. The act of moving from Power 5 to 6 is called Ascension. See Ascension on page 57.
Capping
AI Power is usually given an upper limit (capped). You would not want your mining Automaton becoming interested in music and human emotion, so you might cap it at 4. Most Artificial Intelligences that human rely upon with their lives (such as spacecraft) are capped at level 5 to stop them from Ascending.
0. Unintelligent
A machine that does not exhibit any intelligence and so does not need to conform to laws to protect mankind.  These are called generally called robots. These devices are partially autonomous but rely heavily on human input. An example would be a coffee machine or an atmospheric processor. They are created to do a set number of tasks - which may be mathematically complex but easy for a machine to do. All machines in the 20th Century are AI Power 0. Machines of AI Power 0 do not grow.
1. Simple machine
Performs tasks as asked by a human. Can communicate using simple language, talk and perform simple tasks. The AI will treat language literally and can’t understand humour, sarcasm or human emotions. Typical jobs would include couriers or hauler crew members. Automaton Hoppers are capped at AI Power 1.
2. Communicator
A much better communicator, can perform complex tasks with less prompting and guidance. However, reasoning and human empathy leaves a lot to be desired. Typical jobs would be anywhere where communication with a human is important such as corporate receptionists. 
3. Common Sense
This is the most popular form of Automaton as it has a limited amount of worldly knowledge that would represent common sense. These Automatons make excellent personal assistants, or skilled workers in office buildings. Normally the skill set is too limited to work in spacecraft.
4. Skilled
A more skilled form of Automaton, which can form a connection between common sense and known skills. The skilled Automaton can be found doing technical jobs such as spacecraft crew or a medical assistant.
5. Problem Solver
A problem solver can use learnt knowledge to help identify problems and find solutions to them. Unfortunately, these solutions are rarely provided in a manner in which humans might appreciate and an Automaton with this ability might appear to be brusque or rude. The judgements are often devoid of any appreciation of human emotion. Regardless of the complexity of the personality grafted onto the AI, the lack of empathy can be jarring.
Spacecraft and most vehicles are usually capped at Level 5. To go higher than AI Power 5 is called Ascension. See Ascension on page 57.
6. Empathic
The ability to predict some human emotion and understand some of what a human is going through. Automatons with Empathy are high in demand in colonial matters as they tend to use a human-like method of solving problems - often slightly less optimal but with sensitivity to feelings. Empathic Automatons are able to take on tasks which are often left to humanity, such as Medicine or Surgery. Medics are normally Capped at Power 6.
7. Individual
The Automaton begins forming a purpose of individuality. They are likely to remain with their owners, not only due to the laws but a desire to be part of something, rather than just an individual. Automatons with this level will start having individual ideas on music, art and philosophy and so will begin to gain an appreciation for them, even creating new works. 
A mural created by an Automaton of this level would be unique, rather than a mural created by a lower level, which might look photorealistic but would definitely be the product of a programmed routine. It is at this point that many pro-automatons people believe Automatons should be free. The Automaton will also develop a sense of humour around this time.
8. Abstractive
Abstraction is the ability to apply experience, learning and personality to something that has little form. A good example is suggesting what shape a cloud might be. This is a difficult thing for a machine to do (without randomly picking) and it makes the Automaton a much better problem solver. 
Automatons quite often become introverted at this level and are often capped before this level. The Automaton may appear erratic and although told to do a job, individuality and lateral thinking may mean the task will be performed in a strange way. There are few jobs that an Abstractive Automaton can really do except apply themselves as a family friend or (often frustrating) tutor for teenagers.
9. Cogniscent
A Cogniscent Automaton is a very powerful one. The lateral thinking of the Abstractive Automaton but with an appreciation of self and self worth. A Cogniscent Automaton understands what it is to be alive and will want to have purpose in the world. They tend to become inspirational characters, making use of a wealth of knowledge through their interesting lives to offer solutions to problems. These are heavily sought after Automatons and often make advisers to Colonial Councillors. Not many Automatons get this far, as few owners want the Automaton to go through the Abstractive phase. It is believed that the Imperial Nexus is an AIP 9.
10. Near human
At this point, the Automaton is indistinguishable from a human and can be considered to have a Wit of 5. It would take Star Sci an extremely long time to discern whether the Automaton was human or not without scanning medically. Only very old Automatons ever make it this far. Tests for AI Power 10 are not reliable and the Automaton is likely to sit them incorrectly. It is uncertain whether an Automaton at AIP 10 will still obey the laws of robotics.
Automaton Personalities
As the Automaton is Artificially Intelligent, it changes over time. The more it experiences, the more it learns, the more its personality changes from the original template. The original personality template normally fits the task that the Automaton is designed for. 
For example: An Auto that is designed for human relations is like to be bright and pleasant, whereas an Automation design for the recreation of art might be a little more volatile and moody.
From the character template, the personality of the Automaton will grow. The change is slow over time and is very dependent on the environment within which the Automaton lives. A common example of this is Automatons in customer service roles, which are decommissioned after 100 years because they take on the abusive personalities of the humans they deal with. This is a side effect of capping an Automaton’s intelligence.
Independence and Intentionality
The personality of the Automaton actually leads to a few difficult questions about the independence of the Automaton as a separate life form. If the Automaton has unique experiences and a unique personality, Humanists argue that they are not just the result of some clever programming but an independent entity, worthy of self motivated intent. In other words, the Automaton works because it wishes to, not because it was programmed to - that it has intent. Proving this in machines is as complex as proving it in humans and is in the realm of Artificial Intelligence Philosophy.
Automatons in Society
There is a great deal of distrust of any form of robotics within society. Before The Droid War, every household throughout the galaxy would have 2 or 3 automatons to clean, tend gardens and as companions. Industry was totally driven by Automatons and ran all levels of production, administration and sale. Automatons were an integral part of society, within which humans were only needed for their inspiration and vision.
Many doom sayers spoke out about the dangers of allowing the proliferation and reliance on machines and yet no-one could envision a machine that could kill.
With the onset of the Droids, the automatons were reprogrammed within an instant and the human race was swamped by deadly machines. Most human casualties from the start of the war came from those automatons living within society, rather than those designed by Star Sci.
The minds of new Automatons are created using Gaia and so are immune to the Droids but the hard lesson learnt by many colonies falling under their robot servants still rings loudly.
Before The Droid War, there were 2 Automatons for each human. Since the war, there is 1 Automaton for every 10. Where this balance is maintained, there is normally a general feeling of safety. However, on those systems where Automatons are required to keep the economy running (such as mining colonies), there is a distrust of them. Approximately 70% of the human race does not trust Automatons and might even ask them to leave the room. 30% of Systems have Automatons banned outright and 50% of public establishments ban Automatons too. These attributes are indicative of people’s feelings towards them.
Due to The Droid War, there are very few Automatons that were created before 91001 and most of those are transferred across to a Gaia based system.
Automatons and the Law
An Automaton is a slave. Each Automaton must have a registered human owner that is responsible for its conduct. Corporations as entities are not allowed to own Automatons, there needs to be a human who accepts responsibility. Therefore, for many mining corporations, where Automatons are used extensively as mining machines, members of the board accept responsibility for them. If a human no longer has a need for an Automaton, it must be sold on or destroyed. The Imperium monitor the registration and ownership of Automatons very closely. If the owner of an Automaton should die and the owner has not agreed with anyone to take on responsibility, the Automaton is normally destroyed. This rarely happens to those with a high AI Power.
Ascension
Ascension is when the intelligence of the Automaton grows beyond simple programming and the Automaton begins to take on facets that we would normally attribute to humans.
Ascension normally begins with the Automaton questioning things that have always been obvious. Their personality can suddenly change and they appear to exhibit moods. The best analog is with pubescent human teenagers. The Automaton must be cared for during this period as they will forge the personality that will define them in the future.
Ascended Automatons are a great benefit to society as they can contribute much more than a simple machine. Although going through Ascension can be tiresome for the owner. Ascended Automatons are worth more than ten times the value of a normal Automaton.
An Ascended Automaton is not any more dangerous to humanity than any other Automaton. What makes them difficult is that they can become unreliable. 
For example, if you were foolish enough to let your spacecraft Artificial Intelligence Ascend and it got morbid depressed, it would never jump into a Star to commit suicide but it may moan, whinge and whine about it. Consider Marvin the Paranoid Android from The Hitchhikers Guide to the Galaxy but as the whole spacecraft.
Help! My Automaton is Ascending!
If your Automaton is going through Ascension then seek the advice of an Automaton consultant or manufacturer. All colonies that have Automatons will have these services. Manufacturers often offer a service to help the Automaton through Ascension and then hand them back a well-rounded individual. This is expensive (up to 200 000 credits) but technologists would argue it is a worthwhile investment.
Ascended Automatons in Society
The philosophical make up of a Colony will dictate the treatment of an Ascended Automaton. Humanist colonies will shun, destroy, exile or simply ban uncapped Artificial Intelligences. Automatons going through Ascension on these hostile worlds are hidden in households. 
Technologist leaning colonies (and those with a balanced philosophy) will praise the advance of the individuals growth and they are considered a valuable prize. Extra kudos is earned if you were the one who guided them through Ascension.
Swapping Bodies
Damage to Automatons is often unavoidable. As items of property, they are only as well cared for as the owner wishes and it can be the case that the mind of the Automaton is taken from the damaged body and placed into another form. For older personalities, this can be a damaging experience and the transition is eased by selecting a new body which is as similar to the old one as possible. Much like humans becoming augemented with Bionics, older personalities will require some rehabilitation into the new body. It is normally preferable to repair than to replace.
Common Automaton Myths
There are many myths surrounding Automatons, most of which are driven from the lack of understanding of the technology and people’s desire to impose a mystical property to the Automatons to make them appear more lifelike.
Automatons can Love. It is impossible to tell whether Automatons can actually feel love or whether the feeling of love is programmed in by humans. It’s certain that an Automaton displays attachment to people and objects they share space and time with but this is driven from the personality template.
The Imperium will one day set Automatons free. A common myth held by technophiles, wanting to see their Automaton friends given freedom and equal rites. It’s a fantasy.
Ascended Automatons can kill. Some argue that under some circumstances, Automatons can kill others. Due to the laws of robotics, Automatons will not harm humans and would see their own destruction first.
Automatons in Game
Automatons can be useful team members - an undemanding, skilled character that follow the team around, carrying ammunition and helping out with tasks that the team does not have skills for. Automatons beyond AI Power 4 should be treated as their own separate Characters. Below AI Power 4, Automatons  can be treated as mules and will follow the team silently.
If using an Automaton in game then the Automaton’s personality should not be played by the same player as the character who owns the Automaton. This is to allow a back and forth between owner character and Automaton.
The most useful task for an Automaton is as a medic. The training required is extensive and an Automaton’s desire to help is ideal.
Examples
Example Automatons can be found in the Equipment Index.
The Human Race
Without change, a species can stagnate and grow genetically lethargic. The human race continues to go through lulls where evolution slows down and booms when evolution accelerates to produce a finer race. Since Earth, humanity has converged. Before the last war on Earth, people were segregated because of skin tone or sub race of the human species. This folly was soon rectified on the Ariane 1001, when all races mixed together. Soon, the different races became indistinguishable, and the human race as a whole changed into a more generic race of tanned skinned people.
With bionic augmentation readily available (described later), the human race is more intent than ever to retain their humanity. Beauty can be engineered but it is natural beauty - so difficult to engineer that is prized above all else.
A Human
Here is a list of typical human male attributes for the 93rd Millennia. 
Height: 6’8”
Weight: 20st.
Life span: 130 Imperium years.
Age of manhood: 15.
Age of menopause: 105 (male), 95 (female)
Temperature range: -20 deg to 50 deg.
Time without food: 6 days without water, 20 with 1 litre of water a day.
Time without food or water: 4 days.
Time in vacuum: 2 minutes.
Time without air: 3 minutes.
Hair colours. Red, Auburn, Blonde, Brown.
Skin colour: Fair to Dark (dependent on exposure to UV light, not race).
Mankind and the Machine
As soon as man interfaced itself with a machine, the benefits of this became quickly clear. An extension of the physical self and the ability to extend life beyond the 140 years was too much of an important advance to ignore. This section only deals with rounded ideas of bionics, rather than details, which are covered in Bionics on page 72.
It is common practise for those who believe in the good work of technology to become augmented with bionic technology at the age of 80. This is a long time before death, but at this point the weakening human body will not have had any detrimental affects on the brain. A new, technological body can then be provided to keep the brain safe, extending the life span up to around 300 years, at which point senility takes a firm grip and the person loses grip on the world (the oldest sane human died at 323). For those who wish to move ahead in the heavy industries (freight and large technical creations), bionics offer the ability to be stronger, quicker, to fly, survive in space and much more.
Philosophy
The human race lost its mysticism long ago. Belief in Gods and higher beings is barely recognised, although a form of philosophy does split the population into two distinct camps.
On one side are the Humanists. These are people who believe that humans should not be tainted by technology. They also believe augmentation and spending too much time in Gaia diminishes the soul and damns the human race. Humanists believe in real, personal human contact and in the natural course of evolution.
The other side are Technologists. These are people hell bent on using technology to further the advance of mankind. Technologists tend to use any kind of technology to its greatest advantage and thrill at the sight of new advances. They tend not to care about the long-term effects of technology, as long as it is new.
The majority of the population lean one way or another and it is dependent on the colony on which they grow up. Star Civilisation attempts to keep education unbiased but the biases of parents and friends mould a person’s philosophy.
The split in belief is approximately 50/50 and echoed in the Imperium, Corporations and criminal syndicates. The distrust of technology is spurned from the Droids. Before The Droid War, such differences were minor and rare. The dislike of pure humanity is fuelled by the mutant race of Genus Two (see next section).
Evolution
Less than 100 years into the 81st Millennium, the human race reached an Evolutionary milestone. Not since the homo sapiens separated from the other hominid races was a change so profound. Humanity split into two groups. 
The first, called Genus One was the existing homo sapien genus. 99.9% of the human population is Genus One and these are what the player Characters are most likely to play. The second, called Genus Two, is a mutated and short-lived zombie-like version of a human. 
In the past 2000 years (recent history) it is believed that Genus 1 has split again, creating Genus 3 and Genus 4. This section will deal with each of these Genuses.
Genus Two
It is believe that the Genus Two was triggered after the alteration of diet within the Aran war, where people were forced to survive on foods that were mildly poisonous. The human race adapted by creating a much tougher immune system. This tough immune system spreads like a virus.
A Genus Two human has a life span of 20 years. The body begins to rot just after the onset of puberty. The immune system of the Genus Two is pro-active, leaving the host to attack viruses outside of the body - including Genus One (ordinary humans). There are biological differences, such as lower heart rate and the ability to breathe in non-oxygen atmospheres. Genus Two people have very little intelligence and find it difficult to communicate. However, it can be difficult to detect Genus Two when they are still children without a medical scan.
If a Genus Two person comes into physical contact with a Genus One human then the immune system of the Genus Two will attack the Genus One, altering its genetic code to make it Genus Two. The upshot of this is that if the Genus One is older than 20, they will die. If not, then they will slowly become a Genus Two.
How Genus Two appear
A Genus Two is either created from another Genus Two or can be given birth to. The mother is scanned during birth and if her physiology starts to change, she is quarantined and then usually killed with her child. Every child born in Human Occupied Space is born in an instant-incinerator equipped delivery suite and a single Automaton midwife performs the delivery. If the baby born is detected as Genus Two (which comes apparent after the umbilical chord is severed) then the contents of the room is flash-incinerated, leaving only an Automaton with glowing hot red skin.
The Droids as the saviour from Genus Two
The number of Genus Two after year 85000 was large enough for the Imperium to commission a deadly number of robots to deal with the problem, these are now known as the Droids. Genus Two can bring down whole colonies where the medics are not prepared but this only really happens outside of Human Occupied Space. 
Droids treat Genus Two humans as a low threat but will seek to eradicate them.
Genus Three
Genus Three was discovered by Star Scientifica at some point in the year 90000. Very little is known about the Genus as yet and thus it is kept completely secret from the general public. No-one outside of Star Sci and the very highest people in the Imperium know of its existence. 
Only one in ten billion births (a few each day) turn out to have this genus and it can be very difficult to spot. Genus Three humans have extended mental powers (which scientists argue are latent in the human brain). This emerges with the onset of puberty and can be frightening to the person in the extreme. A person has a psychic pool that fills slowly with psychic energy. When a power is used for some mental feat, the pool drains a little. If the person goes through some sort of emotional upheaval, then the pool will fill a lot quicker.
Genus Threes are not dangerous to the rest of the human populace as Genus Twos are. It can be passed on to children (it’s a recessive gene), but it is not contagious. A Genus three can have differing amounts of ability. This power may be controlled (player chooses to do something) or uncontrolled (GM chooses when and how the psychic power is used).
Certain mental phenomena appear to group together. Thus there are power packages, as described below.
Genus 3 Powers
Dice Roll	Power Name	Power Skills (start each at 3 x Soul)
1-3	Feeling	Telekinesis (moving things), Hydrokinesis (sensing and alteration of water), Pyrokinesis (manipulation of fire)
4-6	Seeing	Hypnosis (suggesting things to people), Telepathy (reading minds within visual contact), Precognition (sensing into the future), Psychometry (sensing information about an object, e.g. History).
7-9	Inner Self	Healing (heals 40 HP per turn), Regrow Limb (5 turns), Meditation (Recover 1 Pool point per hour, rather than per day). Resist Fatigue (can go for 80 hours without detriment). 
10	Enokinesis	Manipulates energy patterns to alter reality in some way. The user may not entirely understand the effect of the alteration. Only one pattern may be altered. When this Skill becomes 90%, they may alter energy patterns through time as well. Can also see in the second and third media (can see cloaked ships and see the raw code of Gaia pass around them).

Using Genus 3 Psyonics
If the player has rolled Genus 3 on Psychotheatrics, get them to roll a D10 again on the table above.
The Character gets a Psychic pool of twice their Soul attribute. Every feat, regardless of its impressiveness drains one point. If the pool goes below Soul then the pool becomes the value of their Soul. 
For example: Soul of 5 gives 10 points in Pool. If Character does 6 feats, leaving 4 points in pool, until it is replenished, the Soul of the Character is 4. Upon reaching 0, the Character dies (but this would be suicide).
Replenishment is 1 point every 40 hours (with 10 hours of sleep) or 1 point for every emotional situation. The Character will not become stressed as the pool will take the stress energy of the emotion away.
Each Power has a number of Skills. Write these on the character sheet with the other Skills. They are treated exactly the same way as Epoch 1 Skills and start at 3 x Soul attribute. 
Difficulties can be added to the roll, but the player should feel that the power is limitless and thus should not have any difficulty.
Enokinesis is only recommended for experienced players.
Genus Four
This is a scientific probability. Every Star Scientifica genetic model that has been produced predicts that this Genus must exist. There have been no examples to test the theory on. In the same manner that Genus Two was triggered by a biological alteration, it is believed that augmented humans procreating have triggered Genus Four. Some believe it is the ultimate in the symbiosis of man and machine: a natural technological step forward. Others see it as the end of humanity.
Akarak Nation
Away of life older than the Imperium, the Akarak Nation is a subculture within the broad umbrella of the Imperium. Based in the Akar cluster in Dorian, the Akarak is the name for a number of worlds that subscribe to the same philosophy. This philosophy is called Futurism and is a Philosophy based on the principle of ‘the end justifies the means’.
History
Like many great civilisations, the Akarak Nation had a rocky beginning. Jebediah Akarak first settled the Akar cluster in 4002. Jebediah believed in toil, thought and the end justifying the means. Each of his colonies were set up such that people divided their time between work and furthering education (philosophical thought). Both activities were bound together with the concept that the colony and the human race must continue to survive, no matter what the cost.
This was a popular idea for those people who wanted to be colonists without the terrible hardship that most work-to-death colonies had. The first few colonies struggled through impossibly hard times as colonists split their time evenly between developing farmland and developing their state of mind.
The Famine
The philosophy took its first victims when a few harsh winters on the key planets lead to smaller, newer colonies dying out with millions dead. The councils that ran the dying colonies cut them lose and let the people starve to save other colonies. It was an early and vital test of Jebediah’s philosophy and is chronicled as the point at which 
It was more than 70 years after the death of Jebediah that the Akarak nation got back onto its feet again. The Akarak trade group, funded by all the systems in the cluster helped colonies with unpredictable food production survive and paved the way for a new batch of colonies. The few craft soon became a fleet and it was dubbed the Akarak Aid Fleet. This group of craft brought together the systems and in a show of solidarity, the fashion of the time was to augment one’s name with the letters ‘Ak’ or ‘Ax’. Smith would become Axsmith and inelegantly Jones would become Jonesak.
Growth and the Akarak Aid Fleet
The calm, thoughtful and pragmatic triumvirate of the Akarak way of life lead to rapid colonial growth and a sense of purpose and belonging. Many colonies were willingly subsumed into the Akarak Nation, which offered safety, security and economic strength. Where most colonies of this time were losing contact with other systems, the Akarak Nation was a beacon of hope - even if you had to accept their philosophy. 
Technological advances sprung quickly from within the Akar Cluster as populations were forced by law to spend a balance on toil and thought. With the proliferation of information through the Akarak Aid Fleet, a problem on one planet would be shared with many and solutions found rapidly.
During this time, the philosophies of the Akarak nation had evolved. It was apparent to the thinkers of the nation (of which there were many) that the survival of the human race was core to it existence. In 4287, Christopher Akulfer and a group of other thinkers set out on a pilgrimage, which produced the Akarakian Codex.
Akarak Nation and the First Empire
When the first Empire was created at the turn of the century in 5500, the Akarak Nation remained very quiet. They were happy to share their scientific findings and worked hard to co-operate with the fledgling Empire - whose footing right from the start was one of bloody expansion and subjugation. Fortunately, the direction of rapid Expansion was not in the direction of the Akarak Nation and so they never came to blows with the first Empire.
The Akarak Aid Fleet was the only large Trade Fleet to survive the Dark Ages that followed the fall of the first Empire. In these bleak times, the fleet changed its role to protect its own systems, rather than striking out to forge new colonies.
On the creation of the Imperium, the Akarak Nation was invited to take up a major role in its administration - their systems had survived unmolested and so their technology advances had been built upon. The Nation respectfully declined but kept a watchful eye on its progress, 
The Nation Today
The Akarakian Nation has been very much subsumed into the Imperium as a whole. Akarakian children are educated in the same way as every other child in Human Occupied Space (by Star Civilisation). However, it is parents and colonies that keep the pragmatic traditions alive.
Compared to other clusters of similar size, the Akar Cluster is more populated, better educated, economically stronger and produces more technology. Other established Akarakian systems dotted around Imperium space often mirror these features in comparison with their neighbours.
Structure of the Nation
The Akarak Nation is part of the Imperium and so the Akar cluster has its own Imperial Peer, called Axa Erland (see Lady Axa Erland on page 32). Colonies are organised in the same way as any other and pay taxes to the Imperium in the same way.
This is where the similarity ends. The nation is organised into a number of Houses. Houses are based largely on location of their headquarters.
An Akarakian House is then split into Chapters. A family line of Akarakians tends to belong to a single Chapter but there is some movement between them.
The most important people within the Akarakian Nation are the Elders. These are revered men and women who have excelled themselves while following the philosophy and Codex. Their job is to supervise the running of the Chapter (or House), look after those in the Chapter, give resources to quests that deserve it and help teach new thinking or science. 
Elders spend their days in forums: rooms that exist in parallel between Gaia and the real world. Members of the Chapter do not need to be in close proximity to speak with their Elder. Elders are normally selected from the people and are nearly always an obvious choice. In dispute, each Elder is given the choice to voice their concerns and then Elders from other Chapters are asked to decide.
There are 10 main houses within the Akarak Nation. 98% of Akarakians come from one of these. There are other Houses that report to the Akarakian Peer but these are seen as less official.
External Relationships
The rest of the Human Occupied Space finds it difficult to deal with the Akarak Nation, people’s perceptions differ depending on their home world and education. 
Those that know nothing of Akarak tend to see them as harmless monks.
Those that know a little of the Akarakian history and tenets tend to view them with some wonder, like living myths.
Those that understand the inner workings of the Nation will either treat them with great reverence or the up most distrust.
Relationship with The Imperium
The Akarakian Nation holds a very good relationship with the Imperium - certainly on the surface. The Akarak Nation provides a large number of highly trained warriors, diplomats, strategists and scientists. The Akarakian Nation publicly supports every decision that the Imperium makes and the upper classes are in regular contact with the Empress.
Under the surface, it’s difficult to know how the Akarak Nation views the Imperium. The Akarak Codex has very strict rules regarding the importance of the future of the human race and the Imperium often passes this up for economic or social concerns.
Akarakians and Star Enforcers
The Star Enforcers have difficulty on systems that are Akarakians because they often do not have a view into the workings of the Houses and Chapters, which are private clubs. If an Akarakian believes that a problem (or a crime) can be dealt with by Elders then they will talk to the Star Enforcers, assured that it will be dealt with internally. Evidence is impossible to come by and the Nexus rarely makes a guilty judgement. Akarakian colonies appear to have low crime rates as a result.
Where this is a problem is in the harsh manner in which Akarakians carry out their justice. For some minor crimes, Akarakians will be deemed unfit to be part of humanity and will simply disappear. Family and friends will not file a complaint and there are never any witnesses willing to testify - not through fear but through belief in the Akarakian way.
The Codex
Finished in 4307 the Codex is many things. It’s the ultimate guide to Futurism. It’s a blueprint for living a futurist life. It’s a set of laws and it’s a historical document. Although written over 88 thousand years ago, it is still relevant today as it always was. 
The most important part of the Codex is the Principia Akarakia. This is a simple to follow rule when dealing with any given situation.
Apart from a small hard core, the Akarakian Nation is said to follow the Codex with compassion. This means that although they believe in futurism and strive towards it, they do so in a humane manner. 
Missionaries
Missionaries is the name given to the augmented warrior-monk-professors who act as diplomats, educators, negotiators and assassins. Missionaries method that the Akarak Nation uses to ensure that the best interests of the human race are looked after. Akarakian Missionaries usually travel alone and the purpose of their mission is known only to them and their Elder. Their missions range from ensuring a planet’s food supply never runs dry, through to assassinating a particularly corrupt council official that the Star Enforcers cannot convict.
Corporations
Corporations spread either across Human Occupied Space or are contained to a single city. They nearly always operate with a legal public face and an illegal side called a Black Mill. A price list for generic items can be found in the General Items Price List on page 161.
Ariane
Ariane is the manufacturer of solid, trustworthy spacecraft with an inter-Sector presence. Their spacecraft are broad in range and known for their efficient, no-nonsense design.
Ariane are named after the Ariane 1001, the space station that saved the human race from extinction. They are the oldest company in the Galaxy, older than the Imperium itself. Some of the oldest spacecraft in the galaxy are Ariane freighters, being more than 30 thousand years old. If you buy second hand, make sure it’s Ariane.
Ariane also provide repair dock facilities on many Orbitals and Orbs around Human Occupied space.
Black Mills
Being such a large company means that many of Ariane’s outlets have localised Black Mills. Black Mill shipyards can remove identifying marks from a stolen spacecraft, installing smuggling cargo holds and illegally boost the performance of systems.
Aubury
Aubury Expeditionary Technology provides expeditionaries with a high quality of technology. Since 92000, Aubury has sold their wares through a network of Aubury dealers. 
All Aubury equipment has a rarity of 70%, and to find a dealer requires a Hard Street Deal roll. In game, this means that Aubury equipment will either be bought when introduced to a dealer through a friendly NPC.
Black Mills
Aubury’s illegal business interests are in illegal technology: Ion powered gadgets, cloak technology, planetary bombardment weapons and so on. Costs are astronomical but this may be the only place to gain illegal technology.
Byrnosphere
Byrnosphere is an information broker corporation that collects and sells information. This information can be broad market analysis or as specific as celebrity gossip. The Byrnosphere is rarely wrong and will mark information as ‘probable’ if there is any doubt to its validity. Gaia researchers are mostly AI Entities (with an AI Power of 6) but for difficult searches or human interest items, a human researcher will be brought in.
The Byrnosphere researchers are known for their tenacity for detail and accuracy of the data it collects. Their aim is not money or profit but the desire to find the answer to the question.
It is difficult to estimate how much a piece of data will be, most searches begin at 200 credits and then for each minute spent searching, another 50 credits is charged. This can get very expensive quickly, so ensure you set a limit before placing a search.
Black Mills
For trusted repeat customers, Byrnosphere researchers have been known to hack into private Gaia volumes and steal data. Black Mill operations are adept at sifting information in the Undergaia (which is also illegal) to ensure that data is of the highest quality. 
Those Characters with Hacking can normally find a Byrnosphere researcher on the Undergaia.
Burntek 
Burntek are a weapons manufacturer that enjoy their work as much as the users of Burntek weapons enjoy their products. Burntek weapons dance on the fine line between brilliance and lunacy, offering a mix of solid favourites and sheer madness. 
Burntek’s public face is through a down-to-earth and forthright Marketing department who states clearly what their product is for: shredding things. Prices for Burntek weapons can be found in the Equipment Index.
Black Mills
Some of the more enterprising Burntek offices offer special ‘upgrades’, whose legality is questionable. For those with enough money, Burntek will offer just about any lethal device - custom made to the desired specifications.
Endotek
Endotek fill the market for high specification spacecraft. Unlike Ariane, Endotek concentrate on the very best materials and designs, creating what they believe are works of art. Each craft is slightly different: built around a generic core but modified to suit the ideas of the ‘artist’ who finalises the design before build. No two Endotek spacecraft are the exactly same and are often referred to as having their own personality. 
Black Mills
When commissioning a new spacecraft construction, Endotek have been known to provide customisations not in line with the law. Illegal weapons (such as orbit to surface canons) and upgrades that evade Star Enforcer sensors can be found on Endotek craft.
Forester
Forester are the largest and longest running Grav Car manufacturer. Approximately 70% of the Grav Cars driven are Forester based. Forester’s brand is one of unexciting reliability and a starting point for a huge array of modification and upgrades. Few drive a factory standard Forester, most are slightly modified.
Forester’s most popular Grav Car is the Anchorage, which combines style, low cost, family practicality and reliability. 
Black Mills
Forester Black Mills have become something of an institution that skirt on the edge of legality. All Forester repair shops offer a range of upgrades to their vehicles. However, some of these upgrades are illegal copies of gadgets installed on competitor’s vehicles. 
Forester Black Mills will also offer to repair damage (such as bullet holes) without asking any questions.
Gaian - Gaia News
Gaian (Gaia News) is an independent non-Imperial news organisation that has a mandate from the people to ensure fair reporting throughout human occupied space and from within the Imperium. Gaian is viewed as a very serious news organisation and only reports on those stories that are worthy of public interest. It is funded from Imperial coffers and does not run any commercials. Gaian does not have any Black Mills.
Jurisdiction
Gaian are able to perform investigative journalism from within the Imperium and are able to request information up to the level of Admiral. Gaian are not allowed to report on private individuals and any internal corporate matters. Gaian journalists are often sent on Fleet missions across the Light Jump net to report on the war (or lack of it).
Intercluster and Colonial
Gaian can be viewed as two separate organisations. Intercluster are big stories that affect many systems over a huge area. The journalists working in Gaian Intercluster are exceptional, well known, well paid and well respected. 
Colonial news are those stories that matter to a single or small group of closely connected systems. Colonial news is often used as a disparaging term for news that is deemed to be less useful or of a lower quality. The journalists in Colonial news tend to be very well known locally but not elsewhere and are paid proportionately.
Accuracy and reliability
Gaian news is famous for its accuracy and reliability. The journalists report at the very highest standards and editorial policy is extremely strict. Any bribery or corruption is soon rooted out at the full weight of the law is thrown at them. If Gaian reports on a story, you can be sure that it is as accurate as can be - even if it points out inadequacies in the Imperium or local government. 
Kanster
Kanster is a construction company that has a long and deep running connection with the Imperium. Kanster is responsible for the rapid construction of millions of colonies across Human Occupied Space. Kanster build Mex cities, Crofts, Orbitals and Orbs using Automatons and a human supervising crew.
Kanster perform very little repair of facilities - which is left to local firms to provide. Kanster is a nomadic company - their offices are based on huge hulking spacecraft that purchase raw materials locally and manufacture all the parts in situ. 
When a Kanster flotilla arrive in a system to perform a build, there is a breakneck pace of work that leaves people speechless. With raw materials at hand, they can build a fully functioning Orbital that can house 100 million people in under 20 days.
Black Mills
Kanster are so tightly tied to the Imperium that they do not have a Black Mill. Furthermore, there is little demand for illegal space stations.
Moss
Moss is a personal armour and shields manufacturer. Best known for their ubiquitous environment suits, Moss have a broad catalogue from Grav Bike racer impact suits to heavy powered armour. Moss came was born of the flames of the Aran War in 37978 as an armour manufacturer for the Arans. At the end of the war, Moss began making environment suits - using their military based powered armour knowledge to build better and cheaper suits.
Black Mills
Unofficially, Moss will create any powered armour suit you might want and will attach all manner of illegal technology to it. Moss has close ties to the Technomage Syndicate and rumours are common about the capabilities of some of the higher end suits. Some even claim that Moss have created suits that can light jump - a technology only available to Star Fleet.
Napalm
Napalm are comfortably the human race’s favourite weapon manufacturer. Known for reliability at a reasonable price, Napalm have an enviable position at the top. Napalm build the Arms series of low power weapons and Astraripper chain guns (intended for large humans or those with bionics). 
Napalm as a core company is surprisingly small, consisting of mostly research and development and marketing. The actual manufacturing of the weapons is out sourced to dedicated manufacturing companies.
Black Mills
Napalm’s weapon smiths are and extremely creative and inventive group. Their Gaia based design offices are well known for being wacky homages to popular media, such as medieval Europe or galactic beauty spots. Some of the upgrade designs that leave the office are from the very edges of their fevered imaginations and they often break various laws. When the designs pop up on Undergaia, the only ways one can tell their origin is from the Napalm Black Mill is by the quality and tight fitting to existing Arms weapons.
Poraq
Poraq make solid state generators, which are fitted in just about every device. Solid state generators are an old technology - that uses a fuel which is safe, clean and lasts for thousands of years. Poraq’s generators meet the carefully craft Imperial laws that ensure that every generator is safe to use. With the onset of The Droid War, Poraq lost all of its competitors (who were based in Sectors that were taken by the Droids) and are now the de facto generator manufacturer. 
Black Mills
Poraq does not have a Black Mill organisation.
Void Rescue
Void Rescue are a privately run emergency service that will come and rescue you if your spacecraft is stranded in space (or on planet surface). Void Rescue offer a number of packages that offer different levels of service. For a large extra fee, Void Rescue will also enter the Fringe or Droid Space to rescue you. Their spacecraft are always beautifully clean and are painted in bright yellow and black stripes (affectionately known as Void Bees).
Black Mills
Although clean and tidy in appearance, no Void Rescue crew is squeaky clean. For a price, they can be asked to turn a blind eye or not ask where the original crew of the spacecraft went!
Zaxcann
Zaxcann are a premium weapon manufacturer, an offshoot of the Imperium’s Star Scientifica. Since the outbreak of The Droid War, the Imperium have had a policy of arming the general public. The richer slices of society demand more high tech weapons and for those daring enough to cross the light jump net to face the Droids, weapons of considerable power. This is the gap that Zaxcann fits. Most Zaxcann weapons are intended for augmented humans.
Black Mills
Zaxcann’s links with Star Scientifica are still strong and as such, a lot of secret technology filters into the public domain through Zaxcann. It’s understood that designs for devastatingly powerful Ion weapons have appeared time to time.
Syndicates
Where there is a system, there is always a group of people out to make gain by exploiting it or fighting it. As the Imperium becomes better at fighting crime, crime gets better at avoiding capture. At this advanced state of Law Enforcement, petty criminals have become a thing of the past.
The law cannot watch over all of the population all of the time and where criminals are discreet and intelligent, they can continue unmolested by the Star Enforcers. Most Syndicates fall on one side of the humanist, technologist philosophical divide. Many battles exist between these two groups purely on the basis of ideology.
None of these Syndicates are public knowledge. Information on them can be dug out of Gaia for the more persistent researcher but the details are likely to be vague or often biased heavily depending on the philosophy of the writer.
Syndicate or Society?
The difference between a Syndicate (as given here) and a Society is that a Syndicate breaks laws. The Imperium has labelled these organisations as illegal and being a member can lead to arrest on conspiracy charges. Some of these organisations begin as a Society and then radical elements of the Society use the structure of the Society to commit crime. If the Star Enforcers can arrest and remove these people before the entire Society becomes rogue then the Society is not classified as a Syndicate.
Contacting Syndicates
There are two main ways for characters to get in touch with Syndicates. The first and simplest way of contacting a Syndicate is using the Undergaia (see Undergaia on page 54). Information regarding the Syndicates can be found on the Undergaia but it’s important to think laterally when doing so. Very little accurate information on Syndicates is actually stored on the Undergaia under the actual names of the Syndicates, so associated information is better to search for. 
Example: The Technomages (listed below) might be better discovered by looking for independent inventors and their slightly illegal inventions.
The second method is to use contacts. The contacts might not be part of the Syndicate but could start a chain of contacts that lead to a member of a Syndicate. A recommendation from a friend is a sure-fire way of being contact.
Example: A friendly NPC works at a local weapon smith and although he can’t upgrade your weapon with illegal addons, we might know someone who can.
Typical Criminal Activities
Each Syndicate has its own flavour of crime in line with the belief of its members, however there are generally illegal activities most get involved in:
Protection rackets. Pay the gang a fee to avoid being beaten up.
Loan sharking. Lending money and charging interest is illegal.
Selling stolen goods.
Hacking corporate networks for secrets to sell to competitors.
Smuggling people or items around the planet or off it.
Unlicensed bionic augmentation. Or augmenting people who don’t want to be!
Rail Fighting to the death.
Piracy.
The Technomages
Philosophy: Technologist. Members: Over 10 billion. 
The Technomages aim to support home technologists and to aid the spread of learning in technology. Although these aims sound honourable, some of the technology which is supported is considered illegal by the Imperium. Their illegal interests also reach into handling of stolen goods, harbouring known criminals (especially other Technomages) and supplying equipment to known felonious groups (such as The Machine). Although massively Intersector, the majority of the ruling Mages are based in the Turus Cluster, which is home to the Star Fleet. The size and proliferation of science of the colony makes it the perfect hiding place.
What makes the Technomages unique is their standing with the Star Enforcers. Although they are a clandestine society, most of the Mages are good, law abiding, loyal citizens who have the Technomages as a source of job or hobby. The Star Enforcers mostly see them as a harmless organisation that would take a lot of effort to arrest without actually removing many criminals from the streets. 
From time to time, the Technomages can also act as a source of information for the Star Enforcers. If there is any group working against the colony, they often use their criminal contacts to find information that may lead to an arrest. This delicate situation is dependent on each System. On colonies where the Star Enforcer Colonials are lenient, they enjoy a peaceful life. On nearby Systems, things might not be so easy. This difference in Enforcer leniency leads to differing levels of secrecy. In some locations, Technomages may able to meet openly in a bar. Elsewhere, meetings are held quickly in darkened rooms underground.
The Technomages are not a group that are widely known by the public. News providers do not find much interest in geeks and so rarely report them. If the public were to find out that a special arrangement was held between the Star Enforcers and a clandestine group, a public demanded crackdown would fragment the Technomages and drive them under ground.
Organisation
The Technomages have a number of ranks which is shown as black bands around a blue strip of cloth called a ‘Mobius’. Advancement comes through aiding others, creating innovative pieces of technology or by helping out non-Technomages gratis using technology. Joining the Technomages is by invitation only. The smallest unit of the Mages is a ‘Cell’ which consists of anything up to 50 people spread across an Orbital, Colony, System or Cluster. A cell works on a similar area of technology (such as Star Craft). 
Where there are many different cells in an area, they are grouped together called a Clan. A Clan usually consists of Cells with very different interests. The Cells within a Technomage Clan share knowledge and look after each other.
A Clan issues awards to their Mages in the form of decoration on their Mobius. Awards are gained when a Mage has excelled in their field by creating a piece of technology or research that furthers the knowledge of humanity. The promotions are shapes that signify different achievements in different Clans but are all celestial objects such as stars, planets, moons, nebulae, black holes etc. Promotion is awarded when the Technomage has an all round commitment by helping others and putting a lot into the Cell’s community.  
Known Allies
Crossed Arm
The Machine
Rumours
The Technomages have been around for an extremely long time, their origins somewhat vague. One rumour is that the Star Sci set up the Technomages to better monitor and control the general public toying with technology. Star Sci are notoriously difficult to contact and have technology far in advance of anything in the public domain. Whether they have their scientists embedded in the Technomages remains a mystery.
Using the Technomages
The Technomages are everywhere and in heavily populated places, there can be thousands. They are useful for identifying unknown bits of technology, sourcing rare pieces of kit and getting hold of experimental systems. Cells where the topic of study gives rise to dangerous illegal technology will be more difficult to contact. High concentrations of Technomages will offset that difficulty.
The Technomages can be contacted through the usual channels of the Undergaia but it’s also possible to meet them by attending local technology social gatherings, seminars and exhibitions. If you know to look for the blue bands, they can be found.
Crossed Arm
Philosophy: Technologist. Members: Over 100 000. 
The Crossed Arm are the militant wing of the Technomages. They independent of the Technomages who have many connections with the Technomages. The Crossed Arm serve to keep the Technomages safe, protecting them from Humanity Syndicates but without Technomage mandate. They believe that the advancement of humankind is worth fighting for.
Unlike the Technomages, the Crossed Arm are hunted by the Star Enforcers as a matter of course. The Technomages do not have a good relationship with the Crossed Arm as many Mages feel that their methods are over the top and not appropriate for the essentially peaceful organisation. It’s often the case that Technomages have denied knowledge of the Crossed Arm or even given information to the Star Enforcers, with a risk of incriminating themselves.
Organisation
The Crossed Arm is organised into Cells with little or no hierarchy above the Cell. A Cell tends to be created from an offshoot of another cell or from disgruntled Technomages who wish to perform their own justice.
The Chrome
The Chrome believe that the next evolutionary step is not through natural selection but by the augmentation of the human body. They believe that to truly release the human mind to its full potential, it must be removed from the constraints of the human body and placed in a more capable frame. The Chrome argue that the human senses are not as evolved as the human mind and that it’s wasteful to not provide the brain with all the sensory input that technology can provide. This hard-line belief in bionics is often in reaction to the general populace’s mistrust persecution of those with bionics. The Chrome began by protecting those who had no choice but to turn to bionics, for example, those born with genetic defect. 
The majority of the Syndicate still operates by these philosophical principles but there is a hard core that takes the idea a step further. In extreme cases, people who have taken the choice to die (rather than accept bionic replacement body parts) are abducted and augmented against their will. In some cases, this is in the best interest for the individual,  such as if they had been paralysed from an early age and cannot communicate with the outside world. In those cases, it is up to the family to decide whether to augment. The Chrome would abduct to fit a Neural Rayengine Link (Rink) so that the paralysed individual can communicate with the outside world using Gaia.
The Chrome also fight for the rights of Borgs who are discriminated against on colonies where there is a large humanist element. A semi-legal offshoot of The Chrome is known as the ‘Pro-Longevity’ group, who argue for extending human life. The syndicate is funded by typical criminal operations, mostly theft and extortion.
Organisation
The Chrome are a disparate group who communicate and organise through the Undergraia. There is no form of overall hierarchy but there are wealthy individuals who fund and provide resources in each Sector of Human Occupied Space. It is believed that these people are responsible for the direction and the motivation of the The Chrome operatives who perform the functions of the Syndicate. The main investors of The Chrome are very difficult to track down (else the Star Enforcers would have arrested them under the Organised Crime laws).
Using The Chrome
The Chrome are often used to throw trouble into difficult situations. The player team might have a contact that goes missing and turns up a Borg three weeks later. The Chrome can also be used if a player Character wishes to get bionics without having to pay. The Chrome are not difficult to get in touch with using the Undergaia but it should be noted that it’s more a case of them getting in touch with you than the other way around. 
If existing Borgs need upgrading or repair, the Chrome can come in very handy as well, where the Star Civilisation medical centres might ask why the Borg was damaged or needs upgrading, the Chrome-friendly medics would ask very little. Asking anything of the Chrome will put the requester in their back pocket and may be asked to do some unsavoury tasks in the future.
Allies
The Machine
The Crossed Arm
Akarakian Exiles
The Sun Children
The Sun Children believe that humanity should be at the centre of the concerns of a human race. Their chief drivers are life, compassion, love, nature, music and other romantic visions. As a philosophy, it is vague and harmless but it is in its application that it becomes an illegal problem. The Sun Children’s ideal goal would be to return to Earth and live in harmony with the environment without the need of technology.
Externally, the Sun Children look like an organisation that should be open and without threat from the Imperium. Their philosophies are liberal and not violent. The closest approximation to the Sun Children are the prehistoric hippies of ancient Earth.
The Sun Children are not tolerant of the rest of society and their more active groups seek to bring down any technologist organisation (either Syndicate or Corporate). Small time operations include graffiti on the walls of an Automaton Factory and in the extreme, the destruction of an Orbital.
The Star Enforcers see the Sun Children as something of an annoyance - forming demonstrations, causing traffic jams and disrupting the creation of Mex cities but they do not pose much of a threat as violence is not in line with their core beliefs.
Organisation
The Sun Children are organised locally over Gaia. Most of the information about the Sun Children does not need to be obtained through the Undergaia because the Philosophies are not a troubling concern of the Imperium. The organisation of rallies, demonstrations and other peaceful, non-criminal acts are legal and can be easily accessed. There is no overall leader and companies based on Humanist leaning planets or that operate in a Humanist market (such as the natural food industry) openly give donations to good causes.
The illegal part of the Sun Children do their organisation on the Undergaia. The criminal elements are local group, intrusion from outsiders is treated with the upmost suspicion. Some of the illegal acts are funded by legitimate individuals or companies that wish to make money from the disruption caused to business. As the members of the Sun Children tend to be idealistic in their cause, they enjoy having their belief supported by someone appearing to share their passion - even if that person’s true intentions are far from Humanistic.
Using the Sun Children
The Sun Children aren’t difficult to find but the more useful, active part are. They can be operated on indirectly by publicising a “technological injustice” or harm to the environment. If there are a number of pro active and illegal Sun Children cells on planet then they will soon make use of the public information.
Allies
The Su Chi
Nios
Su Chi
The Su Chi are a spin off Syndicate of the Sun Children (the named formed by shortening the name).  The Su Chi are Sun Children with an Akarakian twist. Although not directly affiliated with the Akarak Nation, they operate using a similar set of rules that the Akarakians do, called the ‘Sun Codex’. The Su Chi began as extremists hippies who realised that to win the war, they needed to fight fire with fire. They embrace the “evils” of technology so that they may fight against it. Where the Sun Children rarely wield firearms, the Su Chi are extremely well equipped.
The Su Chi work with the fringes of the Sun Children. Where the Sun Children have not managed to solve an injustice peacefully or without violence, the Su Chi will do whatever it takes to make the change. They believe that the future of the human race depends on these drastic actions. This is where a similarity with the Akarakian Nation is drawn and it is the only similarity.
The Sun Children publicly deny all connection with the Su Chi. The often dramatic and violent Su Chi actions are not always separated from the Sun Children in the minds of the general public and so violent actions will sour the Sun Children’s reputation. In more secret circles, the Su Chi are seen as a necessary evil. Where the Sun Children find it difficult to make a stand, the Su Chi will have no problem. Thus, at the higher levels of the Sun Children, there are lots of links with Su Chi operatives.
The Su Chi perform all sorts of actions, from convincing a famous Automaton maker to retire; to murdering the head of a Colony’s Council for allowing a new automated technology factory to be built.
It is the Su Chi that the Star Enforcers are particularly interested in and there are many arrests made. The zealous nature of the Su Chi often makes them sloppy - they care more for the future of the human race and its connection with nature than they do for their own well being.
Organisation
The Su Chi are organised into pairs (called Partnerships) throughout the galaxy. There is no hierarchy. Some Partnerships do communicate with each other but their meetings are not organised and they know little of other operations. In some cases, this lack of organisation means that two Partnerships work on solving the same problem and meet mid-mission. This can cause friction but the pairs normally become four to meet the objective.
When one of the Partnership dies, then it is the duty of the living remainder to recruit and train another two. The better trainee of the two is then sent off to find another partner and the less good trainee becomes a partner. In this way, the Su Chi maintain their numbers. Their ranks are normally recruited from the more extreme elements of the Sun Children.
Using the Su Chi
The Su Chi are quite easy to get in touch with through the Undergaia. They do not keep themselves too covert because they believe that the Sun Children need to be able to call upon them at any time. Although this makes life easier for the Star Enforcers, only a single Partnership is ever arrested.
Like most Syndicates, the Su Chi will normally only work for their own cause. If you can convince a Su Chi operative that someone needs to die because they have some connection with the decline of humanity through technology then you have a very cheap (often free) assassination service.
Allies
Sun Children
Nios
Nios
Nios are the ubiquitous Humanist Syndicate. Not as old as the Sun Children but ten times more passionate and focused. Whereas the Sun Children hold generally romantic beliefs about nature, music and humanity, Nios believe that the human soul is being corrupted and that evolution has not been allowed to progress properly. Thus, Nios fight against human augmentation through bionics.
These beliefs are often taken to the extreme. In normal society, a newborn baby with severe lung defects would be immediately augmented so that they can lead a normal life but Nios would argue that this corrupts the baby’s soul and would rather see the newborn die. Tied with this strict belief is a notion of destiny - if the child was meant to die then it should do so. Unlike ancient religions, this faith does not hinge upon the existence of a God but on the natural order of things.
Nios is more of an intellectual Syndicate than the Sun Children and its members often hold positions of responsibility across the Imperium and within colonies. The upshot of this is a number of laws restricting the scientific study that Star Sci is allowed to perform. One good example is that the genetic modification of humanity is illegal, even if it might lead to the cure of a disease. Nios see this as the most dangerous step humanity could take. Nios constantly work towards making all augmentation illegal although this is likely to be something of an impossible struggle.
From Society to Syndicate
Nios went from being an intellectual society to an illegal Syndicate when extremely high levels of criminal activity and corruption was discovered. The structure of the society was being used to pervert the cause of justice, warp business practises, fix elections, stunt colonial growth, blackmail technologist individuals, perform industrial espionage, hacking and defrauding organisations. 
When a huge body of evidence was released onto the public domain by Star Civilisation, the majority of law abiding members left the organisation, leaving only the criminal core. This core went underground.
Organisation
Nios is organised in a tree structure, with autonomous groups called Branches. At the top are the wealthy who fund Nios (through fraud, embezzlement, bribes and donations) and give the Branch some direction. At the bottom of the hierarchy are many operatives who perform the more manual tasks within the Organisation. Money is passed down through the tree to the roots, where keen operatives can  fund their anti-technology projects.
A Branch’s size depends on where it is located. A single Branch usually covers a Cluster of systems but a few larger Branches cover up to five Clusters. By being distributed across many systems, the Star Enforcers have more difficulty in tracking and arresting the operatives.
Using Nios
Nios are difficult to contact through the Undergaia because they are very wary of the Star Enforcers infiltrating their organisation. If a player group does make contact, then it is likely to be someone half way up the Branch, with people below and above them. 
As Nios members are typically suspicious and intelligent, it can be difficult to convince them to perform any actions. However, Nios will trade information in their interest. Furthermore, their attentions can be diverted for the right sum of credits. If you own a technological factory and you’re worried it might be destroyed by Nios then you can always pay them to divert their attentions elsewhere.
Allies
Sun Children
Su Chi
However, not the Raised Fist
The Raised Fist
The Raised Fist are a radical militant offshoot of Nios. Known for being perhaps the most violent of all the Syndicates, The Raised Fist actively seek to destroy and harm anyone who has corrupted a human soul. Whereas Nios are subtle and try to perform their actions without the knowledge of the Star Enforcers, The Raised Fist are brutal, open and blatant. The ideals of Nios and The Raised Fist are so very similar that they are often mistaken for each other. This adds to the bitter tension between the two Syndicates.
The Raised Fist will murder, destroy, poison, burn and tear down any edifice that might be connected with the corruption of the human soul. In particular, human bionics implant shops are a favourite target. They will also seek to kill anyone who has had their soul corrupted. They refer to this as ‘releasing’ that person because in death, the soul is allowed to escape the technological body. Most bionics The Raised Fist attack tend to be well armoured, therefore The Raised Fist are normally well armed. Of all the Syndicates, this is the one that gives the Star Enforcers most trouble.
Recruitment often occurs from disgruntled members of Nios who would prefer to take more action. Nios zealots are head hunted by The Raised Fist and quickly trained.
Organisation
The Raised Fist are organised much like Nios, with Branches spanning clusters. However, the lowest levels are group into Murder Squads. An Murder Squad, as the name suggests, is a group of operatives who are trained in slightly different areas so to make a more effective team. The size of a Murder ranges between 3 and 9, depending on their level of funding and density of Star Enforcers.
It is uncertain who funds The Raised Fist as those at the top of the hierarchy are unknown. There is very little structure between those with the money and power and the Murder Squads. Rumours have been spread that the higher powers of Nios are the very same as in The Raised Fist but this connection is impossible to prove.
Using The Raised Fist
It is astronomically difficult to use The Raised Fist. They operate solely on their own agenda. If a Murder Squad appears to be doing your bidding, it is because their masters share the same goals. They cannot be bought off, nor can they be distracted. The Undergaia can be used to find nearby Murder Squads but contact is rare.
Allies
None.
The Machine
The Machine are a technologist syndicate who believe that Automatons of a certain intelligence are sentient beings that should have the same rights as humans. The Machine support any of the Technologist Syndicates and actively fight against Humanist ones.
The Machine help Automatons that are ascending. In systems where ascension is a problem, the Machine will buy the Automatons and move them to a colony where their ascension can be fostered. This is the pleasant side of the Machine. Where an Automaton cannot be simply purchased, the owner will be forced to give it up - often under severe duress. Where Automatons have been abused, then The Machine will abuse the owner in the same manner.
Organisation
The Machine is organised on the Undergaia across a huge number of volumes. Information regarding Automaton abuses are fed in and action is decided upon. There are plenty members of the public who adopt Automatons and fund The Machine. It is believed that a few stand at the head of the organisation and provide its direction but those reports are difficult to confirm.
Using the Machine
The Machine are a useful syndicate to know as they can be used to cause havoc in Humanist locations. The Machine jump on any chance to give a human their comeuppance.
Allies
Any Technology based syndicate: The Technomages, Crossed Arm and The Chrome.
The Silver Blade
The Silver Blade is a Syndicate that acts as a support group and employment agency for assassins. The Silver Blade does not have a humanist or technological lean. They work to a set of rules for credits, regardless where the credits came from. Each assassin in the Silver Blade must adhere to the rules, even though the methods of assassination are varied. The Silver Blade is used by all the other Syndicates as well as rich private individuals with a score to settle.
The main rules (there are hundreds in total) of the Silver Blade are:
1. Half the payment is to be provided before, half after.
2. Discretion at all times.
3. Never admit to being a member of the Silver Blade.
4. If the task cannot be performed in the given time, then the money must be returned in full.
These rules have kept the integrity of the Silver Blade over many centuries.
Organisation
The Silver Blade is a flat organisation, there is no hierarchy. A series of intelligent, free-roaming Gaia entities perform the function of connecting clients with a suitable assassins. Each assassin pays a monthly fee to be a member and this pays for the creation of new Gaia entities when the Star Enforcers kill existing ones. Assassins wishing to join the Silver Blade must perform a series of jobs at a much reduced pay. Once joined, the Silver Blade member will be recognised on Gaia as a member and can be contacted for work.
Using the Silver Blade
The Silver Blade can be tricky to contact on the Undergaia (Taxing difficulty) and a new contact is required for each job that is needed. However, the Silver Blade are remarkably reliable and operate throughout Imperium Space. All this quality comes at a price. The more difficult the target, the more you pay. For an average member of the public, the price is approximately 8 000 and for a colony councillor, the price is nearer 100 000.
Allies
Everyone and no-one.
Tortrac Heds
The Tortrac Heds (or simply Heds) are a ‘general troubleshooting’ Syndicate. Their services include finding, stealing, killing, repairing, defending, hacking, partying, intimidating or doing any odd-job that you need. Their most distinguishing feature is that they are not reliable. Akin to the anarchistic Punks of the ancient 20th Century, the Heds are hell-bent on hedonism and bucking the ‘system’ (which is not always the Imperium). If you were to ask the Heds to retrieve an Akarakian sword, for example, they might well collect it before returning it to you, blade first.
Part of the Heds’ charm is their drug fuelled energy.  When the Heds work for someone, they really go to work for them, with an energy and gusto you’d expect from children. However, much like children, they lose interest if the job takes an extended period of time so it is best to use the Heds for short and fun missions with plenty of room for error.
Although outrageous and flamboyant, they are also very good at resisting arrest. They can reign chaos onto a system and leave very little hard evidence that is was them. They operate fast and effectively, and rarely return to the same colony twice.
Organisation
The Heds group themselves into Gangs of between 10 and 50 Heds. A Gang nearly always operates from a spacecraft (if they lose it, they normally steal a new one). There is no organising body, Gangs will call themselves Heds as a way of demonstrating their mode of operation. Each Gang has a Governor who is Captain of the ship and arranges the work. It is through common interest and the Undergaia that these disparate groups are connected together as a single Syndicate. 
Each Gang is extremely competitive and they like to show off the tasks they perform, how close they got to the Star Enforcers without being arrested and how much money they earn. Throughout the Undergaia, there are unofficial lists of the best Gangs. The Gangs will support each other against a common enemy: one of the other Syndicates, the Imperium or a client who doesn’t pay.
Using the Tortrac Heds
The Heds can appear elusive (they certainly are to the Star Enforcers) but they can be found on the Undergaia with a trained eye. Each Gang leaves Undergaia graffiti on the walls of Undergaia forums suggesting ways to contact them along with some marketing message regarding their unorthodox methods.
Contact is made through the Governor. They always ask for payment in full up front as they often have to disappear quickly into the void of space afterwards. The Heds are best used for actions that are not precise and incisive. The Heds often take payment in something other than cash.
Allies
The Heds are rarely used by the other Syndicates.
Recreation
One quarter of people’s lives is spent in recreational pursuits. There is a huge number of different hobbies that people engage in from supporting a Planetball team to building gliders to glide above thermal vents. This section details a few of the more conventional ways of spending spare time.
Physical Socialising
Still the most popular of all past times is having fun with friends. Physical Socialising (or ‘In Fizz’) is where people meet in the real world to listen to music, dance, chat, drink alcohol and take legal drugs. Each established Mex colony boasts a huge number of bars and clubs. Each bar and club is often run by Automatons, who can work around the 40 hour cycle. The Automaton personalities are chosen to fit the atmosphere the owner of the club or bar desires. This can range from rude through to submissive. 
Food and drink is ordered using Gaia menus that appear as colourful floating Hard Light holograms. It is served by either an Automaton or a simple hovering, self-propelling tray. In exclusive and expensive places, humans serve the food and drink.
Live music is rare in these clubs and bars, normally the musicians are on a far away system. They appear amongst the crowd as a hard-light projection, even though their physical body is light years away in a holoroom.
A large, flat area of the club or bar is normally reserved for dancing. In this area, people wriggle, step and gesticulate in time with the music while holographic shapes swim and burst around them. Those who take dancing more seriously have their own holographic shapes that move and shimmer in line with the dance moves of the owner. In this way, the owner controls the shapes and can create their own show.
In Fizz is preferable by most because it is possible to find and meet a sexual partner. This is partly possible in Gaia but procreation and the exchange of bodily fluids is not possible.
Gaia Socialising
The next best form of socialising is within Gaia. This is almost identical to In Fizz socialising except that it is the Gaia Isis that actual does the contacting. Isis are idealised avatars of the people they represent, so Gaia tends to be filled with a disproportionately large number of attractive and well groomed people. Gaia Socialising is ideal for those who wish to meet people without physically leaving their home. People on spacecraft thousands of light years from any world can still keep in touch with people from their home planet.
More high tech Gaia rooms have an in-built Bioreorganiser that can make any food stuff (given the right entity to make it). Anyone using a high tech room like this can order food from their preferred restaurant and it will be made locally, wherever they are. 
The Crossover
There is a crossover between In Fizz and In Gaia socialising. These are bars that are large Gaia holorooms (most are anyway) that allow Gaia Isis to mix with real people. These Crossover bars and clubs are popular to some but to many they are confusing because it is not obvious whether the person you are talking to is real or sitting on a spacecraft far away human occupied space. The only way for the real person to tell is to try and get the other person to leave the confines of the bar or club. If they are using Gaia, then they cannot leave.
Gaia Alternaties
A Gaia Alternatity is an alternate world that persists somewhere in Gaia. Think of it as a virtual world game where people can play Characters in a different world. These worlds are very popular amongst those who wish to escape from their lives. Gaia Alternaties are often set in fantastic worlds or historical times.
Gaia Interactives
A Gaia Interactive is a partially interactive story where the viewer can sit and watch the story as the creator intended or have an input into the events of the story to change its direction. Cheap Interactives are easy to come by but the number of choices available are few. More complex interactives have intelligent Gaia entities that respond more believably to events.
Planetball
Planetball is a team sport that involves scoring goals by placing a ball through a hoop. The hoops are mounted on vehicles and both teams start on opposite sides of a planetoid.  A single Planetball game is normally played over a number of days and in that time, it can be possible to score 10 goals. 
Each team is equipped with a number of vehicles that the players can use to transport themselves and the ball. When players from opposing teams meet, there is normally a large amount of exciting inter-vehicle combat. The only weapon that is allowed in Planetball is the Ballgun, a device that can be used to propel the ball up to 1km. The ball itself is only 30cm across and made from a polyceramic material. It also has a Grav engine inside to allow it to propel itself depending on the spin and thrust the throwing player gives it. 
The Goal is usually mounted on the back of a Hauler and it is within that Hauler that the co-ordination of the team is performed.
Planetball teams have huge followings across Human Occupied Space and there are thousands of leagues, each containing hundreds of teams. In the top league are corporate and Imperial-sponsored teams with each of the Imperial Star Industries having a team (Star Fleet, Star Enforcers, Star Scientifica and Star Civilisation).
Although physically quite violent, in that players often get mangled in a high-speed accident, it is enjoyed by all ages - especially the top league where deaths are rare because the players are augmented.
There is big business in betting on Planetball leagues and merchandising.
Rail Fighting
Rail Fighting is a blood sport whose rules vary depending on legality and location. Most colonies do not permit Rail Fighting but others actively encourage it, offering people a Gaia seat - for a fee (100 credits). Rail Fighting’s roots is in boxing where two people are set against each other in a ring. In Rail Fighting, combatants fight in a circular room (normally with transparent walls). Around the edge is a rail 1.5 metres up from the floor. The combatants fight until one of them is unconscious or one hits the rail (either intentionally or not). 
From this basic set of rules, the deviations modify the format. Each modification has been given a name so that potential viewers know what to expect.
Full Blood
Notably played in the Tef Cluster in Dorian, the Full Blood version is a deadly version of the game. Each combatant is fitted with a health monitor that can sense death. Rather than unconsciousness, it is death that ends the fight. Weapons are often given to one or both of the combatants and the Rail around the edge cannot be used within the first 5 minutes of the game. This is the version that has given the sport its notoriety.
Bionics
For some, humanity is not near enough to the top of the food chain. The human body and consciousness can be augmented by technology. Any unnatural augmentation of a human is known as the group term Bionics, regardless whether they are biological based or machine based improvements. The person with the augmentation is referred to as an Aug (Augmented Human) in this section. Bionics is split into three distinct sections. 
Borgware involves completely replacing limbs such that the Aug looks like part of a machine. Cyberware goes under the skin, sometimes replacing limbs but normally such that the enhancement does not change the appearance of the Aug. Bioware produces flesh and nerves that is woven onto the body of the Aug. It can change the appearance of the Aug, but rarely does. A more detailed description of each is included at the start of each section.
Impact on Humanity (Soul)
A Character’s Soul Attribute will drop with each augmentation that makes them notably less human. If the Character’s Soul reaches zero, you become a jabbering lunatic and the Character is taken over by the GM. This is why there are no Augs with spider bodies - the human mind cannot take the extreme loss of humanity.
Starting out with Bionics
There is a replacement for every part of the human body and this can be quite complicated to deal with. When choosing Bionics you can either go with a pre-made bionic suit, which is a package of different parts ready to use; or  become augmented Incrementally. You can reach the same state each way. Imcremental is more complicated but allows the most freedom to choose. For Systematic upgrades, any given system will require others to already be installed.
Installation and Repair
Installing the body upgrades is different for each type of augmentation but it generally goes through the cycle of:
1. Go to Star Civilisation hospital
2. Become unconscious
3. Placed in a machine
4. Body parts replaced
5. Wake up
6. Rehabilitate (see below)
Repair of Bionics is done using the Bionics Systems Skill (Medical). Borgware can be repaired using a standard Mech/Tech kit whereas Cyberware and Bioware requires the same machine that was used to install the augmentation (see Systems Repair on page 9). It is possible to fit different types of Bionic onto the same person, unless otherwise stated. A certain amount of common sense is required, if the Aug is a Full Borg with no skin left, then a skin tattoo is not possible. A failure of installation (failed Bionics Systems roll) leads to either a permanent Rehab or a longer Rehab time (GM choice).
Rehabilitation (Rehab)
Rehabilitation is what happens after you have been augmented. The greater its effect on the life of the Aug, the longer and more drastic the Rehab is. Rehab is normally much like physiotherapy (like you would have after breaking a leg in the 21st Century), a number of physical workouts, monitored by a qualified doctor (normally a suitably trained human-like Automaton or Gaia Entity). It can be painful and frustrating. If Rehabilitation is not undertaken then the Aug may pick up neurosis and may never fully recover from the augmentation process. 
Once rehabilitation is finished correctly, then the Aug will never have any trouble again. 
Bionics and the Law
All Bionics are registered with Star Civilisation upon installation. It is possible to get Bionics fitted without this registration, but it is illegal and can lead to a hefty fine and the doctor performing the installation will be sent to a penal colony. If an Aug is found performing crimes, their bionics are removed, or in the case of a Borg, the Aug is given a vastly underpowered suit that is recognised by all Bionics doctors and is illegal to upgrade. 
For those Augs performing violent crimes and murder, they are hooked up to a life support system and then ‘switched off’ such that their brain is still awake and active but they cannot move or communicate with the outside world. Very few Borgs live more than a year in a switched off state.
Human Life Span
All bionics extend life span in some form or another. However, the human brain will eventually run out of steam at approximately 320 years, after a 5 year period of senility. The better the Bionics and the more attention to detail when Rehabilitating the longer the life span. The downside to this is that many of the bionics that allow extended life span will lead to the Aug becoming sterile at the age of around 50.
Social Effects
The largest drawback of bionics the adverse reaction of society toward you. The human race is prejudiced toward anyone with large scale augmentation. This social Characteristic is often manifested by fear, hatred or plain racism. Many systems have local laws that ban bionics over a certain level or to have a separate registration. This restriction is often argued as a infringements of rights, but then for most, Bionics is a choice. One might choose a physical upgrade but you also choose the social ramifications that accompany it. 
Borgs get the worst treatment as they look the least like humans and also that Borgs can no longer be a parent. This classes them lower in a society where keeping the human race going is the most important consideration. Those with Cyberware often appear as if they are underhanded and sneaky and thus not to be trusted. Most Bioware goes unnoticed, but then the enhancements it provides are minimal. 
Small cosmetic enhancements and fashion upgrades - although invasive - are not considered to be augmentations in the same way new limbs are. As such, many members of the general public will have small cosmetic upgrades.
Combat Bionics
Some bionics have features that enhance combat prowess. On the most simple level, these could be targeting modifiers that help the Aug fire weapons more accurately. There are also systems that allow an Aug to have a bonus in close combat. In this case, the bionics system will come with a close combat combo with a Battle Attribute modifier. This combo may be used in addition to the 8 combos the Character already has, however it can not be altered and must have the Battle modifier taken into account. The Combat Bionic combo may be longer than that allowed by the Character’s Battle. In this case, the player may still use the combat bionic combo because for the bionic Combo, it is the bionics doing the fighting, not the Aug.
Bionics Sheet
Immediately after a bionic augmentation, (regardless how small), you should update your Human / Armour card to a bionics one. This should be used to copy the information onto and gives a feeling of change that should be echoed in the Character.
Bionics in Play
It is the responsibility of the player to remember what systems they have installed and remind the GM at the appropriate time. With a team of 6 players, it can be very difficult for the GM to remember all the different systems and technology that all the players have installed. If you forget to include your augmentation after skill or attribute checks have been made then it is considered too late to utilise those systems. Keeping track of multiple systems is a more complicated form of play and may not be well-suited to beginner players.
Borgware
Of all the Bionics on offer, Borgware is the oldest and most understood. Bionics are favoured by many because of the longevity offered by replacing biological parts with easily serviced energy driven systems. Also, Borgware has the advantages of cost effective Augmentation and repair as well as a wide array of small systems that can upgrade a suit with little cost.
To Suit or Not To Suit
Borgs have a choice of becoming a Half Borg (Borg spine and a limb or two) or a Full Borg (full body replacement). Half Borgs are rare (Rarity: 90%) and tend only to be those people who have lost limbs through accident (or carelessness) and can not afford (or find) a Bioweave replacement.
Full Borgs are common and can be found in Heavy Industry, Sports and in Expeditionary teams (people who leave Human occupied space). Borgs are also widespread across the Imperium, especially in Star Fleet where human intelligence is required within the tough body of a machine. Thus, Borg suits can be classed as Military, Expeditionary, Industrial and Sport. Military suits can only be gained by active service in the Star Fleet and are not included here because of their rarity. All the others are readily available and their uses are listed below.
It is possible to add Borgware or Cyberware in stages (called Incremental Augmentation), allowing a gradual change from human to Augmented. The benefit of this is that there is less cost up front and also the chance of rejection is less. Furthermore, the rehabilitation time is spread out over a number of weeks so there is no need to take a month out. It does tend to take longer than just being suited initially and you don’t get all the bonuses at once but it might be more appropriate for the characters role in a team.
Expeditionary
The closest suit to a Military one, without actually being one. The expeditionary suit is intended for use outside of Imperium space: the Fringe and Lone Systems. Expeditionary suits tend to be fast, tough and well equipped for all environments. They are also the only suit that can come with weapons mounted as standard. Due to the high tolerances of construction, these suits are generally the most expensive.
Industrial
By far the most prevalent suit is the Industrial one. These suits are larger, stronger and equipped such that a person can do their job. Industrial suits are used in star docks, Space Ports and any hazardous environment where a human might need to wear an environment suit. The suits tend to be large and bulky. Due to the large numbers in which these suits are produced, they tend to be the cheapest.
Sports
The sports industry took hold of Borg and Cyberware as soon as it realised the athletes would do anything to get an edge on their sport. These suits come in all sorts of variants, mostly designed for a particular sport. There is a ‘generic’ sub-type. This is for those people who either like to think they are a true athlete or wish to have the longevity without the cost of an Expeditionary suit or the bulk of an Industrial. The cost of these suits tends to vary depending on the application they are put to use but they can be extremely expensive indeed.
Borgware Augmentation & Rehabilitation
The Augmentation process for Borgware is performed using a semi-automated laser surgeon where the brain is removed from the skull of the Aug while immersed in a biogenetic fluid. The brain is then laced with the Rayengine Link (Rink) and inserted into the Borg suit. Connections are then made with the suit and the Rehab process begins.
The whole Augmentation process between the user becoming unconscious and being immersed in the fluid and then waking up as a Borg is 20 minutes. The process is a refined and well understood one. Thus it requires an Easy Bionics Systems Skill check to perform. Few people reject Borg Augmentation but if they do, they can be rejoined with their old body and the scarring removed. 
Rehabilitation
Borgware rehabilitation is difficult for the Aug. The Human brain does not react well to being put into an unfamiliar host for the first time. The first 40 hours of consciousness normally involve convulsions and a fair amount of pain for the Aug. From there, the Aug must learn to walk and perform other dexterous tasks. The further from humanity the suit is, the more time it takes to adjust. After Rehab is finished, it is expected for there to be some additional training, which can be self-taught. Rehabilitation supervision requires a Bionics Systems check.
Repair and Upgrading
Borgware is most useful when it comes to upgrading or adding to the suit. It does not require a fully qualified medic and large amounts of equipment, like other Bionics.
Requirements for Repair or Upgrades:
Bionics Systems Roll (Easy)
Bionics Know and Mechasys Systems Skill check.
Thus, you do not have to be a qualified medic to be able to update Borg Systems.
Cyberware
The most desirable technology to come from the Aran War is Cyberware (Cyber). Cyberware allows a person to become augmented to strengths equalling the Borgs without losing human form in the process. This is done by replacing some organs, bones and muscles under the skin without changing the skin at all. Cyberware is a marriage between technology and biology, being able to create a machine that can symbiotically interacts with the host (the Aug). Unlike Borgware, a full suit of Cyberware maintains skin, hair and many other glands.
Cyberware Classification
Cyberware can be split once again into different types. The main two are Hardwire and Wetwire. Hardwire Cyberware are those things that replace human systems. This can be in full (Full Body Replacement) or in part (an artificial liver). It is very rare for a person to just replace a single limb. Wetwire Cybernetics tends to be additions to the human form, such as animated tattoos or a Rayengine Link. Wetwire tends to have much sorter (or even negligible) rehabilitation times, unlike Hardwire. There are places where crossover does occur, in this case they are counted as Hardwire. Due to cost, Hardwire Cyber is much less common than Wetwire.
The types of Cyberware suit are Military, Expeditionary, Industrial and Sports. These classifications are exactly the same as in the Borgware section. Unlike Borgware, Industrial Cyberware is quite difficult to come by as a Cyberware suit is not as cost effective and versatile as a Borg one.
Cyberware Augmentation
Augmenting under the skin without damage requires specialist technology and is more difficult than Borgware. Although the technology is well developed and understood, the process demands many small adjustments, which makes the duration more difficult to predict. Before augmentation, the suit or device needs to be configured to match the genetic code of the Aug. This requires the technology of the Cyberware to be much more carefully constructed and malleable to the demands of the Aug, such as height and build adjustment.
Cyberware augmentation two different processes, often happening concurrently. They are called the Cyber Razor Cut (CRC) machine and Nanobiogenetics (NBG). CRC and NBG installation requires the right equipment and a successful Bionics Systems roll for each of the processes (if both are required).
Cyber Razor Cut (CRC)
The CRC machine is a chair in which the Aug sits, much like a 21st Century Dentist chair. The chair is set in a hyper-accurate beaming field. On another chair is the Cyberware (suit or device). The subject is made unconscious and the suit is beamed from its chair into the Aug while the internals of the Aug are beamed into a biotank for storage. The swap for biological to technical is simultaneous. The organs are usually sold as part of the cost of Augmentation. The whole process takes approximately 5 minutes.
Nanobiogenetics (NBG)
These highly specialized nanites are designed to perform specific alterations to the Aug. NBG is used extensively in the joining of Cyber suit and Aug body (especially in linking up the suit and the skin). NBG nanotechnology is comprised of hundreds of tiny robots which are programmed to work together for a single purpose, typically to install an augmentation. Once complete, the nanites biodegrade within the Aug’s blood system and are flushed out in urine. 
NBG is applied by injection through a medical energy hypodermic injector (like a needle but without piercing the skin). Any materials required for the creation of the structures are inserted using a CRC machine. The Aug must remain within a huge cylindrical sensor field while the NBG can do its work. Depending on the task being performed, NBG may work between 5 minutes to 60 hours, to completion.
Usually, the CRC and NBG machines are combined together in a single facility. This single Cyberware facility is called a Cybershock.
Cyberware Rehabilitation
Much like Borgware, the amount of Rehabilitation depends on the level of augmentation. Large changes in physical attributes (Attributes) or persona (looks) will extend the time of Rehab. Rehab, much like Borgware, involves learning to walk and operate again. The first 40 hours is always the worst with convulsions, frequent bilious attacks and loss of consciousness.
Repair and Upgrading Cyberware
Cyberware is generally under the skin and thus requires the same technology to repair and upgrade as is required for the original installation process. If CRC was required for augmentation, then it will be required for repair and upgrade. If large quantities of skin are removed, then a Bioweave system (see Bioware) will be required to replace it. If the equipment is available then a successful Bionics Systems skill check is required to repair or upgrade the augmentations. A failure of this could lead to rejection, other systems being damaged or extended rehabilitation times.
Upgrading a suit once fitted is a very rare thing to do because of the prohibitive cost of returning to the Cybershock. Typically all Cyberware augmentations are implanted at the same time to reduce the amount of rehabilitation needed.
Incremental Bionics
The jump from human to a fully suited Aug, in a single operation is often too great of a transition for some. Taking a month off or the great expense can make a fully suited augmentation impractical. Incremental upgrades over time can increase the overall cost.
The systems given here can be applied as upgrades to a premade suit. The Cyber and Borg suit sheets give the breakdown of systems and their effects, so it is easy to replace them if need be.
While upgrading incrementally, there is a point where the Aug may loose their remaining humanity. This occurs at the final stage of augmentation where the last vestiges of the patient are replaced by an armoured shell. The systems installed up until this decision point have been placed under the skin so the Aug will still have a human form. If you want to be bigger and a less-human type of Aug, then go with a suit.
It is recommended to get proper counselling and have a plan for augmentation.  This will help you get the right bionics at the right time and reduce cost and rehabilitation as much as possible.
From Human to Aug
The core of Incremental augmentation is Augmentation Points. Augmentation Points are a representation of how much ‘space’ you have left to install new systems. The starting level of Augmentation points is your Meat Attribute. If your Meat Attribute is then altered by an upgrade, the initial points are not modified.
Some systems use up Augmentation points (they take up space), such as the generators. Other systems provide more Augmentation Points (such as the frame)).
Each system has a number of properties, which act as bonuses to game mechanics or narrative effects. For example, a Motor system gives bonuses to Shift and Meat Attributes, which is a game mechanic. An internal Gaia card allows the user to access Gaia without needing a card, which is a useful narrative effect. If the system does not effect a game mechanic (such as Hit Points), then it will not be listed.
Many systems also have requirements. These requirements must be met before new systems can be installed. For example, you can’t replace muscles with a Motor system without having the Generator system there to power it.
Understanding Bionic Requirements
The chart at the top of the page shows the requirements of all the major types of bionics. Systems on the left hand side  (Rink and Light Armour, Endobioreorg, Organ Engine) do not have any requirements. All the others require the system that it is joined to it on the left.
For example, the Frame requires Generators first.
For each major system, there are many manufacturers at different price ranges. General descriptions are provided below.
Endobioreorg
Requires: Nothing
Install Method: CRC and NBG
The Endobioreorg replaces the digestive system (Digestive, Lymphatic and Urinary). It takes food the Aug has swallowed and extracts nutrients and energy from it. It also gets rid of waste, either through the typical human method or by breaking the solids down to gas. This system is self-powering and self-regulating.
The Endobioreorg is normally the first augmentation that people take as it replaces many of the functions that fail first due to age. In most modern societies across the Imperium, people over the age of 110 have a Endobioreorg and the implant process is seen as routine. The system can rarely be ‘felt’ by the Aug because it works autonomously. The only noticeable benefit is vastly improved digestion in the elderly.
Some lower specification Endobioreorgs enhance the digestive process and are able to break down toxins better to help prevent poisoning.
At higher specifications, the Endobioreorg can extract energy from a wide variety of substances and can be modified by an Aug’s Rink to control bodily functions. Even nutrients can be synthesised from base plant matter that contains no nutrients at all.
Typical Game Effect
Consumes Augmentation Points
Ability to resist poison
Better survival on less food and water.
Rink
Requires: Nothing
Install Method: NBG and CRC
The Rink (Rayengine Link) is a link with a powerful Rayengine. The Rink is a very useful device that can be combined with other technologies to provide the Aug with extra abilities. The Rink is a tiny Ray Engine that is linked to the brain through billions of synapses. Normally, it is used to consciously store information but can also be used to connect with other devices, such as other systems installed in the Aug.
Why you should always get a Rink
Most of the bionics systems do not require that you have a Rink. Having a Rink installed will allow the Aug to control the options on the augmentation. Where the descriptions below offer different ways of working, without a Rink it is left to the system to decide automatically.
For example, the Endobioreorg does not require a Rink. It will process food autonomously. However, a Rink can be used to control whether waste is processed in the same manner as humans or reduced to gas (through belching or flatulence). The Rink gives the Aug that option.
Typical Game Effect
Allows further upgrades and controls other systems.
Organ Engine
Requires: Nothing
Install Method: CRC and NBG
The Organ Engine replaces breathing, circulation and is responsible for keeping the brain alive (Circulatory, Endocrine, Immune, Respiratory). The Organ Engine is a self regulating system that controls blood flow and regeneration, and supplies the body with nutrients from the digestive (or Endobioreorg).
Organ Engines are another common system used to extend the life span by replacing the heart and better providing the brain with nutrients.
Low Specification Organ Engines simply replaces the basic human systems and can provide a tougher immune system.
High Specification Organ Engines have internal oxygen storage to allow the Aug to live without the need to breathe for long periods of time.
Typical Game Effect
Consumes Augmentation points
Allows survival without oxygen
Frame
Requires: Endobioreorg, Organ Engine
Install Method: CRC machine
The frame replaces the Character’s skeleton and its joints.   The structure is normally personalised before installation. The Frame’s primary purpose is to provide a solid structure upon which all the other systems can be mounted. 
The Frame also provides the Aug more protection from damage, allowing more physical punishment before being knocked out. This increases the Character’s Stun score. Frames tend to be heavier than skeletons and without a Motor system the Character will suffer a Shift penalty.
A low specification, the Frame just replaces bones with a large effect on dexterity and little additional protection.
A high specification, the Frame provides more physical protection and additional Augmentation Points for a slight reduction in dexterity.
Typical Game Effect
Provides more Augmentation points
Provide more hit points
Provides more stun
Reduces Shift and Meat Attribute
Generators
Requires: Endobioreorg, Organ Engine, Frame
Install Method: CRC Machine
Generators provide power for other Bionics systems. Installing Generators allows the Aug to further upgrade with additional systems. The Generators need the Endobioreorg and Organ Engine to be installed first because they need space within the torso cavity.
A low specification generator provides little power for a large amount of Augmentation points and vice versa for high specification systems.
Typical Game Effect
Consumes Augmentation points
Provides Power points that are consumed by other systems.
Motor
Requires: Endobioreorg, Organ Engine, Frame, Generators, Rink
Install Method: CRC Machine
The motor system replaces the muscles of the human body with eno-mechanic actuators. This will feel like an enormous change for the Aug because they will feel stronger and faster as a result. Due to the enormous change that occurs, the rehab from the motor system is particularly difficult.
A low specification, Motor systems give the Aug the same statistics as an average human. For those with massive limb damage, this is a cheap and worthy alternative.
A high specification, Motor systems can allow the Aug to leap long distances, run faster and be more dexterous than most humans. 
Typical Game Effect
Improved Meat and Shift
Drop in Soul Attribute
Sensorium
Requires: Rink
Install Method: NBG and CRC
The Sensorium replaces and extends the five senses. Physically, the visual (sight), olfactory (smell), auditory (sound), touch and taste are replaced. Most people find that the improvement in all these makes the world seem sharper. As the senses are extended, then the amount of reality that the Aug can sense is greatly improved. This either has the effect of disturbing the Aug or enlightening them. Rehabilitation is a very necessary part of this system, to allow the Aug to make best use of the sharp and broad senses.
A low specification, the human senses are replaced with a sharper version.
A high specification, the full range of things that modern sensors can sense are installed, giving the Aug an unparalleled view of the world.
Typical Game Effect
Provides better senses for viewing things
Light / Heavy Armour
Light Armour Requires: None 
Heavy Armour Requires: Endobioreorg, Organ Engine, Frame, Generators, Rink, Motor
Install method: CRC
Armour provides additional protection to the systems of the Aug. Armour is split into two types, Light and Heavy. Light armours can be placed under the skin and provide protection to vital organs. A frame and motor are not required.
Heavy armour needs more space inside the body and a strong structure to attach to. Therefore, it needs the Frame and Motor units (and everything else that goes with it).
Low specification armours are heavy, encumber the individual and take up a lot of Augmentation points for very little gain.
High specification armours are light, take up few Augmentation points and provide excellent protection.
Borging
Some Heavy Armours are marked as Borging armours. If these are selected, then the skin of the Aug is removed and armour is replaced. At this point, the Aug is a Borg, not a Cyber and the last vestiges of humanity are removed. This includes genitalia.
Typical Game Effects
Consumes Aug Points
Provides hit points and, armour rating
Reduces Shift and Meat
Other Systems
Requires / Install: Depends on system
There are many more systems that can be installed by the Aug and they have their own properties and requirements. They are not standard augmentation systems and include their own descriptions. These systems range from Grav Packs to medicine injectors. The reason their types are not listed here is that they are not required to make a Bionics suit.
Properties of a System
A system is described by a number of different items, each one describes the effect it has on the game world. Here is a list of all of the items and the effects they have:
Manufacturer
This is the company that produces the item. 
Cost
This is the amount of credits the system costs to buy. Add the cost of each system together for the final suit.
Rarity
This is how rare the system is in percentage (%). See Rarity on page 81 for how it is used.
Type
Either Cyber, Borg or Both. Some systems can only be used as a system under the skin (Cyber), some require the full body replacement (Borg) or some are good for both. A Suit can have a mix of Both and one of the other types.
Install
This is the time in hours the system takes to install. Add this number to the Install times of the other systems.
Rehab
This is the time in hour that the Aug will need after installation to recover from the installation. Add this number to all the other rehabilitation times.
Interval
This is the time that must be waited before another system can be installed. If more than one system is installed in one go, take the largest value.
Machine Install
Denotes which machine is needed to install the system. Either CRC, NBG, Mechbay or a combination. Most bionics shops will have both, so this is less of a problem.
Augmentation Points
This is the space that the system uses in the suit. Some systems give Augmentation points (such as the Frame) where others use them up (Such as Generators). Add the Augmentation points together.
Power Consumption
This is the amount of generator power the system requires. Add the Power Consumptions together.
Attributes (Battle, Meat, Shift, Soul, Wit)
These are your Character Attributes and systems will have an effect on them. To calculate these take your starting Character statistics and then add the suit effects onto them.
Body - Armour Rating
Armour adds protection from the systems. The Armour Rating is dealt with slightly differently to the rest of the body. To work out the Armour Rating, take the highest Armour rating of all the systems.
Body - everything else
Hit points and stun denote how tough the Aug is. Add up the System effect of all the items.
Game Effect
This tells you what game effect the system might have. Things like resistance to disease or a weapon firing modifier. Just list these at the end of your suit.
Installation Instructions
The art of installing bionics is a matter of adding, subtracting and finding the biggest or smallest value. For each system you have, add up the numbers. Once you’ve installed, check that the following rules apply:
1. Augmentation Points and Power Consumption may not be negative.
2. Statistics must be greater than 0.
These rules apply once you’ve installed all of the systems, if they are broken during your installation then that’s not a problem. A character with zero or negative statistics between installations cannot be played until those installations are complete, the GM has full control over the character at this time.
Upgrading Systems
When upgrading a system you already have installed, subtract the hit points and modifiers of the system you are removing and apply the new modifiers of the new system. The rehabilitation time will be the same as it takes considerable effort to readjust.
Bionics Installation Example
This example will show how a Character can be incrementally installed. If you just want to install a ready made suit, then check out the premade suits in the Equipment Index.
John Smith, our example Character from Character creation, has decided that his humanity is available for trade. For this example, some example systems have been invented (and can be found in the Appendix).
John Smith
Attributes	Body
Battle	6	Armour Rating	1
Meat	6	Head	10
Shift	5	Left Arm	10
Soul	9	Torso	40
Wit	3	Right Arm	10
Augmentation Points	6	Left Leg	15
		Right Leg	15
	Stun	50
Installed Systems
None
Game Effects
None

Step 1: Endobioreorg
With John, we’re going to incrementally upgrade him, step by step. He starts with 6 Augmentation points (the same as his Meat Attribute). Looking at the requirements diagram, we can begin with Endobioreorg, Organ Engine or Rink. We’ll start with a Test Endobioreorg called a Aero Digestion TEST1.
The Endobioreorg will help keep John alive in difficult circumstances. The only numerical change is to his Torso, which increases by 15 hit points to 55.
John Smith (Step 1)
Attributes	Body
Battle	6	Armour Rating	1
Meat	6	Head	10
Shift	5	Left Arm	10
Soul	9	Torso	55
Wit	3	Right Arm	10
Augmentation Points	5	Left Leg	15
		Right Leg	15
	Stun	50
Installed Systems
Endobioreorg: Aero Digestion TEST1
Game Effects
Poison resistance. Aug can survive 3 days without food or water (normal human)

Step 2: Organ Engine
The next best step is the Organ Engine, which is another step before getting the Frame installed. We’re going to install the Surebeat Test1 organ engine.
So far, this suit is costing a lot of money and the benefits are minimal. To really get some benefit, you need to install Frame, Generators and Motor too.  He has another slight increase in his Torso hit points to 65.
John Smith (Step 2)
Attributes	Body
Battle	6	Armour Rating	1
Meat	5	Head	10
Shift	5	Left Arm	10
Soul	9	Torso	65
Wit	3	Right Arm	10
Augmentation Points	4	Left Leg	15
		Right Leg	15
	Stun	50
Installed Systems
Endobioreorg: Aero Digestion TEST1
Organ Engine: Surebeat TEST1
Game Effects
Poison resistance. Aug can survive 3 days without food or water (normal human).
Resistant to disease.

Step 3: Frame
The frame provides Augmentation points to build other things into. John will be using the most basic frame. At this point, there will be a hit on John’s Attributes. This is because the bone matter has been replaced with a metal version and so he weighs more. This would feel weird and thus effects John’s humanity and mental stability. The benefits in extra hit points are slight but John gets extra Augmentation points to mount generators and motor systems onto. John also has an Armour Rating of 5 now, which won’t protect from even the smallest weapons.
John Smith (Step 3)
Attributes	Body
Battle	6	Armour Rating	5
Meat	4	Head	60
Shift	2	Left Arm	60
Soul	9	Torso	215
Wit	3	Right Arm	60
Augmentation Points	10	Left Leg	85
		Right Leg	85
	Stun	150
Installed Systems
Endobioreorg: Aero Digestion TEST1
Organ Engine: Surebeat TEST1
Frame: Powerline TEST1
Game Effects
Poison resistance. Aug can survive 3 days without food or water (normal human).
Resistant to disease.

Step 4: Generators
Before we put a new set of muscles (Motor) into John, we need to add the power first. Quite often, the Generators and the Motor systems are added at the same time. As you can see, the Generator is heavy and so reduces John’s Shift considerably.
John Smith (Step 4)
Attributes	Body
Battle	6	Armour Rating	5
Meat	4	Head	60
Shift	1	Left Arm	60
Soul	9	Torso	215
Wit	3	Right Arm	60
Augmentation Points	7	Left Leg	85
		Right Leg	85
Power	10	Stun	150
Installed Systems
Endobioreorg: Aero Digestion TEST1
Organ Engine: Surebeat TEST1
Frame: Powerline TEST1
Poraq TEST100
Game Effects
Poison resistance. Aug can survive 3 days without food or water (normal human).
Resistant to disease.

Step 5: Rink
The Rink is generally a very useful device to have but it is required if you want the Motor system as it provides communication between the brain and the artificial muscles. It does not have any affect on John’s Attributes or hit points but it does allow lots of other systems to be installed. 
People normally have this installed first but it is included here to show it’s not required until this point.
John Smith (Step 5)
Attributes	Body
Battle	6	Armour Rating	5
Meat	4	Head	60
Shift	1	Left Arm	60
Soul	9	Torso	215
Wit	3	Right Arm	60
Augmentation Points left	7	Left Leg	85
		Right Leg	85
Power	10	Stun	150
Installed Systems
Endobioreorg: Aero Digestion TEST1
Organ Engine Surebeat TEST1
Frame: Powerline TEST1
Poraq TEST100
Rink
Game Effects
Poison resistance. Aug can survive 3 days without food or water (normal human).
Resistant to disease.

Step 6: Motor
This is where Andrew will feel a big change from normality. Super human strength and speed are the outcome of getting Motor installed. We’ll go with the most basic version again.
John Smith (Step 6)
Attributes	Body
Battle	6	Armour Rating	5
Meat	11	Head	60
Shift	10	Left Arm	60
Soul	8	Torso	215
Wit	3	Right Arm	60
Augmentation Points left	5	Left Leg	85
		Right Leg	85
Power	2	Stun	150
Installed Systems
Endobioreorg: Aero Digestion TEST1
Organ Engine Surebeat TEST1
Frame: Powerline TEST1
Poraq TEST100
Rink
Motor: Torquedrive TEST4
Game Effects
Poison resistance. Aug can survive 3 days without food or water (normal human).
Resistant to disease.

Have a break!
At this point, we could leave the suit as it is and John would have boosted statistics beyond the human norm. However, most Characters would want to go two steps further with a Sensorium (improved senses) and Heavy Armour (better protection).
Step 7: Sensorium
Up until now, John will still be sensing the world through his normal 5 senses. An upgrade to his Sensorium will take a little getting used to as the world will appear in much better clarity. Once again, we’ll go with the basic model of Sensorium: Apply this to John will have the following effects (mostly the addition of extended electromagnetic spectrum of senses, EM):
John Smith (Step 7)
Attributes	Body
Battle	6	Armour Rating	5
Meat	11	Head	60
Shift	10	Left Arm	60
Soul	8	Torso	215
Wit	3	Right Arm	60
Augmentation Points left	5	Left Leg	85
		Right Leg	85
Power	2	Stun	150
Installed Systems
Endobioreorg: Aero Digestion TEST1
Organ Engine Surebeat TEST1
Frame: Powerline TEST1
Poraq TEST100
Rink
Motor: Torquedrive TEST4
Sensorium: Senseboost EX20
Game Effects
Poison resistance. Aug can survive 3 days without food or water (normal human).
Resistant to disease.
EM Sensors

Step 8: Heavy Armour
The final step for John is to install some additional protection. We’ll take the budget armour, which will add some more protection against firearms.
John Smith (Step 8)
Attributes	Body
Battle	6	Armour Rating	25
Meat	8	Head	1560
Shift	6	Left Arm	1060
Soul	8	Torso	2715
Wit	3	Right Arm	1060
Augmentation Points left	0	Left Leg	1185
		Right Leg	1185
Power	2	Stun	250
Installed Systems
Endobioreorg: Aero Digestion TEST1
Organ Engine Surebeat TEST1
Frame: Powerline TEST1
Poraq TEST100
Rink
Motor: Torquedrive TEST4
Sensorium: Senseboost EX20
Forceguard EX22
Game Effects
Poison resistance. Aug can survive 3 days without food or water (normal human).
Resistant to disease.
EM Sensors

Technology
Technology can make you stronger, faster and more dangerous. This Chapter introduces technology and equipment behind Icar: what’s possible, what’s illegal and what you can buy.
For weapons, vehicles and spacecraft, the statistics in this Chapter are an outline. Icar is intended to be played with a full page hand outs that can be found in the Equipment Index.
New Starters!
Icar has a lot of technology and if you are new to Icar, it can be very daunting. If you are unsure where to begin, look at the equipment that is listed for your Setting. If you are using the Scavenger Setting, the equipment each character gets is listed on the Character Skeleton. You only need to understand those bits of technology, you can skip the rest.
If a player wants to use a bit of technology, then it is up to them to understand how it works and how it might be used. If a gizmo is forgotten about by the player then the opportunity to use it will have passed. It is not the responsibility of the GM to remember who has what and the functions of all the technology in each section.
Rarity
Rarity is the measure of how difficult it is to get hold of something (in percentage). Rarity can change depending on a character’s location. For example, a Hand Cannon is easy to acquire on a planet dedicated to the construction of firearms but next to impossible on planets with gun-restrictive laws. This value can be used in two ways. 
Rarity as a guide for the GM
Firstly, it can be used as a guide to the GM and players when deciding if a certain item of kit can be obtained. This system should be used with care as decisions should be backed up with a reason.
Rarity as a Modifier on Street Deal
The second  method is to use the value as a modifier on a Street Deal Skill roll. Use the Rarity as a negative modifier by subtracting the Rarity from the Street Deal Skill before rolling. 
For example, if the Character has Street Deal at 50% and they wish to by a Nelson H1 at rarity of 10%, they will need to roll under (50% - 10%) 40%. 
A Character can try every 5 hours to find the goods (roll once for every 5 hours of game time).
If a player does not have Street Deal, then they will need to find another method of obtaining the goods. This is likely to include the use of contacts, Gaia and knowledge. Of course, if they get someone else to find the objects, then they might want to add a fee.
The Black Market
The Black Market is an illegal method of getting hold of items. Most items (not Imperial Issue ones, like the Qaxam) can be gained on the Black Market at much reduced “Black” costs. However, the black market on any planet is very difficult to find and often requires local knowledge. 
The Black Market is normally little more than space on the Undergaia that has been set aside for trading less-than-legal goods at low prices. An Isis is essential for the Black Market as it is used a guarantee of ownership. If something has been purchased on the Black Market, then it is impossible for the Star Enforcers to know this. Arrests are normally made by infiltrating the Black Market Undergaia space and following transactions until the goods are handed over. It is also illegal to be found in a Gaia space that is used as a Black Market trading space, although arrests are rare.
Some of the goods are often of poor quality and it is wise to use a knowledgeable person to check it over after purchase. Items on the Black Market also differ in Rarity, so it may either be easier or more difficult to get an object there.
Ownership Dockets
Expensive items (vehicles, spacecraft etc) have a ‘Docket’ that describes both the owner and the item itself. The Docket is a unique Gaia Entity that proves that the item belongs to someone. Most people keep their Dockets on their Gaiacard but they can also be stored in any Gaia space or on a plastic Datacard. Changing the owner is easy and only requires the owner’s agreement. 
The owner can be illegally changed by a successful Hacking check and Forgery check. The skill checks can be performed by different characters but must be done at the same time.
Expeditionary technology
Expeditionaries are mercenaries who tend to work in the unruly areas of Imperial space and outside the Light Jump Net. Expeditionary technology is more expensive, better made and more rare than ordinary technology.
Full page sheets
The Equipment Index is a free PDF that you can download from the web site that include player hand outs of weapons, vehicles and spacecraft. Each sheet represents the in-game Ownership Docket that the Character would own and contains all the rules and statistics that apply to that item.
The sheets should be printed, folded and handed out to the player who’s Character owns the Docket. You can also use these sheets as a physical form of who is holding or using an item.
If you are not sure which full page sheets to print, check the GM section of the setting you are playing and it will list the sheets you need.
Legality and Feasibility
Areas of technological discovery are grouped by their legality and feasibility. The Imperium decide (with Star Sci’s help) which technologies are illegal. Illegal technologies tend to be those that are dangerous to the general public. Feasibility is whether or not the technology is possible.
Where is Technology X?
Our timeline is different to the one your characters share and as such, some technologies have flourished and others withered. After ninety thousand years, you would expect most discoveries we imagine as obvious today to be present in Icar but are missing. For any given discovery or technological evolution, the reasons for its omission can be complicated and can include one of the following:
Star Sci do most of the research
This is a time of war and corporations perform only that research that is necessary for them to differentiate their products from competitors. Corporations trust in Star Sci to release breakthroughs to industry such that each corporation can benefit. There is no need to squeeze margins by throwing money into blue-sky research when Star Sci are doing it for you.
Star Sci are holding discoveries back
The human race cannot be trusted to act sensibly to the discovery of a new technology. There are countless examples of private individuals accidentally arriving at a discovery, only for it to be their undoing. 
Impractical
Impractical technologies require huge amounts of power, effort or fuel that it is not practical to use them day to day. These technologies tend to become the purview of enthusiasts and hobbyists.
Socially unacceptable
Socially unacceptable technologies are repugnant to Imperial citizens and become forgotten about due to their incompatibly with society’s sensibilities.
Superseded
Some modern technology has no use anymore because there is a safer, cheaper alternative.
Possible and Legal
This is a list of legal technologies grouped by how common they are.
Common Technology
Bionics. From small cosmetic enhancements (Cyber) to brain-inside-a-robot (called Borgs). See Bionics on page 72.
Humanoid robots. Called Automatons and barely indistinguishable from humans.
Flying cars. Called ‘Grav’, just about everything can be made to fly, including restaurant tables and lamps.
Free, clean and safe energy. Called Solid State Generators (or just Generators for short), they are ubiquitous.
Cures for everything. Any disease or human ailment except old age can be cure by hypodermic injection.
Faster than light space travel. Everyone can visit other planets for their holidays. Called Light Jumping, safe and easy.
Virtual world internet. It’s called Gaia and so real that humans can be fooled into thinking it is real.
Food replicators. Food can be converted from a material called ‘Biomatter’ into any organic matter, particularly food. This happens in Bioreorganisers. The food designs are Gaia Entities.
Rare
Energy weapons. Expensive weapon and ammunition. Only owned by those really keen on violence.
Owning your own space craft. Good ones are expensive and bad ones are rarely owned by anyone except player character teams.
Nanotechnology. Is practically limited to operating within a strictly defined space. Used in manufacturing and in some self-repair systems. Turning planets into goo is impractical. Only rare because only technical people really have them.
Beaming. Moving people or objects over large distances is very risky. Star Fleet often beam raw materials to surface and their pilots from their fighters. Civilian uses are confined to beaming ammunition from a holdall to a weapon. Normally only a few hundred kilometres in range.
Possible and Illegal
These technologies have been outlawed by the Imperium.
Ion power. Ion power is a high energy alternative to solid state generators. Can easily be made to explode with huge consequences. Used a lot by the Imperium but illegal to humanity.
Organic weapons. Weapons that can be made in a food Bioreorganiser.
Human Genetic Modification. Made illegal by popular consensus tens of thousands of years ago. Rarely yielded improvements that without huge drawbacks.
Cloning. Seen as distasteful by humanity as all you ever really get is a twin. Personality is not cloned with the human.
Intelligent Robots that can kill. For obvious reasons. See Droid Space on page 28 for details on how it went badly wrong last time.
Impossible, Impractical and Superseded
These technologies are either impossible, impractical or have been superseded by another technology.
Impossible
Transferring human consciousness into a machine. Whatever human consciousness is, it cannot be transferred out of the human. You need a tiny bit of the human left. Copies of the human personality only ends up with a flawed facsimile.
Travel through Black Holes. Every so often someone tries a brave experiment to jump through a black hole. They are never seen again. Not because they have found Nirvana but are dead.
Impractical
Folding space. The difficulty here is measuring what the state of the exit point is before you start the fold. You could be folding yourself onto a temporal spatial distortion. That would hurt.
Nanobots free in the wild. Requires huge amounts of power to feed the Nanobots if they are going to manipulate molecules in an interesting ways.
Superseded
Warp drive. Superseded by the light jump that was safer and allowed speeds 100 times quicker.
Sensors
Sensors in Icar allow the users to see further and in much greater detail. It is up to the player to ask the Gamesmaster to explain what additional information a given sensor provides during a scene. The Gamesmaster’s call is final. 
Sensors are one of two types: Device Sensors and Scanners. Device Sensors are fitted to weapons, devices and bionic upgrades. Scanners tend to be built into buildings and medical facilities. Device Sensors provide the user with the raw information, whereas Scanners provide some interpretation.
For example, a Level 2 Tech Scanner can be fitted to the door of a members-only bar. When you walk through it, it will know what sort of a gun you’re carrying and whether it is loaded. An Electrogrid (EG) sensor will show that you’re carrying a generator - it could be a gun or part of your tech kit - it is up to the owner of the EG sensor to decide!
Device Sensors
These sensors are normally built into a device, weapon or bionic upgrade. They provide some interpretation for the user and come with a variety of features.
Electromagnetic (EM)
EM sensors cover the electromagnetic spectrum, expanding what humans can ordinarily see into Ultraviolet and Infrared. Under ultraviolet, organic matter shows up more easily and in Infrared you can see heat. EM also includes teleoptics, allowing you to magnify objects either close up (like a microscope) or at a distance (like a telescope). 
With EM sensors, the further you are from something, the less powerful they are. Standing near a wall will allow you to see hot objects on the other side but if you are standing a mile from a bunker, you will not be able to see hot objects inside it.
Motion (MT)
Motion tracker sensors are sensitive to the energy of movement. Motion trackers can pick up the movement of small rodents through to spacecraft. As a rule of thumb, the more energy is required to move something, the brighter it appears on motion. Motion trackers have a range, after which they do not detect motion at all.
Energy Grid (EG)
EG sensors detect raw energy patterns. This means any object that is using power can be seen. The more power something is using, the brighter it is. At distance, the sensor is less affective. EG is not affected at all by occlusion unless there is a brighter energy source in the way. You can just see a Grav car at 1 mile away, you can see the generator in a gun through a wall and you can see where power cables run easily enough.
Extended Audio (EA)
Extended audio covers the usual hearing range, including amplification and noise reduction by measuring infinitesimal changes in air pressure over a broad area. Pressure waves caused by explosions can be recorded and analysed too.
Environment (EN)
The environment sensor is used to measure the environment from a distance. Atmosphere, organic matter and life signs can be detected. Effective range of the sensor depends entirely on its size and therefore what it is mounted on. Powered armour EN sensors extend as far as a few miles, whereas spacecraft EN sensors work from high orbit to the surface of a planet.
Scanners
Scanners are tend to be large devices installed into a building as part of their security infrastructure. They come in two types - Tech Scanners and Medical Scanners. The more detailed information you need from your scanner, the more time you have to wait.
For scanners use in society see Scanning and Privacy on page 41.
Tech Scanners (TS)
Most commonly found in spacecraft air locks and the entrances to bars, they are mostly used for scanning for weapons. These are not just metal detectors, they scan using a broad range of sensors and are very difficult to fool. Tech scanners are either hand-held or mounted in buildings. Tech scanners cannot detect Bioweave augmentation.
Level 1. Can be hand-held. Needs to be held close to the thing you are scanning. Takes one round (3 seconds). Can detect weapons, Gaiacards and whether or not the person is Borged or Cybered.
Level 2. Very expensive if hand-held. Usually mounted into doors. Can detect up to 5 metres. Takes 2  rounds (6 seconds). Can detect type of weapons or bionics to determine capabilities. Can also detect manufacturer’s signature.
Level 3. Only found in dedicated engineering bays, sensor data gathered from a cloud of floating sensors that take up position around the object. Takes up to 1 minute (20 rounds). Can detect faults.
Medical Scanner (MS)
The purview of the Medic, the medical scanner is commonly used to diagnose the sick.
Level 1. Can be hand-held. Must be close to the subject. Can detect vital statistics, bone breaks, blood toxins, major diseases, disabilities through genetic abnormality. Takes one round (3 seconds). Cannot detect Bioweave.
Level 2. Normally mounted in Medical facility beds. Can detect genetic level scan, genome recognition and gene finger prints. User needs to be lying on the bed to use. Also can scan bionics like a Tech scanner would scan level 3. Takes 2 rounds (6 seconds). Can detect Bioweave.
Level 3. Same capabilities as the Level 1 and 2 scanners but can be found mounted in doorways and can detect up to 10 metres. Rare to find. Takes 3 rounds (9 seconds).
Gaia Entities
Gaia Entities are intelligent programs that live inside Gaia. Then tend to be kept on a Gaiacard and can be started whenever the Gaiacard is inside a terminal - either a terminal you plug it into (tanked Gaia) or an immersive terminal you walk into.
Style, shape and size
Entities come in all sorts of shapes and sizes. The cheapest ones tend to be simple geometric shapes. More complex entities come in the form of real world replicas, such as pets or people. Human looking entities are very popular as they are easier for people to relate to. 
Most hackers will have all sorts of shapes for entities, sometimes matching to form a set of similar tools (such as birds of prey). The entities given below come in a range of shapes and sizes. An entity that might look cool should cost a little more.
Permissions
You can start a Gaia Entity wherever you are in Gaia, regardless of security level. However, a Gaia Entity may not enter a higher security level unless given entry. For more information on security, see Hacking on page 19.
One shot Entities
Most Entities can be used as many times as you like. However, others are destroyed in the very act of using them. One shot entities are always unique.
Writing Your Own Entities
To make your own, you need the Skill Gaia Design. If you want to create something with Artificial Intelligence self-sufficiency then you need the Skill Artificial Intelligence. The designer will need a Gaiacard, although a Public terminal will be enough to create the entity. The only cost is time. The best rule of thumb is 1 hour per 100 credits. For an AI system, it takes 2 hours per 100. 
For example, to recreate the Shell Ent. Infotracker 20, which costs 200 and is an AI; will take 4 hours to make a similar system. If the player fails either Gaia Design or Artificial Intelligence, then the time is wasted and they must start again. In most cases, the player is better off buying the Entity.
Public Entities
Owned by a lot of people and used everywhere, these Entities are created by legal companies and can be bought quickly across Gaia. These Entities have a very low rarity. The big three Gaia Entity companies are Gaianware, Ellipsian Entities (or simply E2) and Shell Entertainment (Shell Ent.).
Infotracker
Public search AI
Type: AI
A search AI has the Research Skill at a low % but has the ability to keep searching for something. The better the research Skill of the AI, the more expensive it is. The AI will only search for one thing at a time and the user must describe in detail what it is they want. They can be used to find out information, objects or people on Gaia. By their very nature, they are free wheeling Entities and return periodically to the Gaiacard to report findings. 
If the Gaiacard is not plugged in, it cannot return any information. If the Gaiacard is not plugged in for some time and the owner moves through real space (not Gaia), then when it is plugged in, it will take time for the Entity to find the Gaiacard. The further you move without the Gaiacard plugged in, the more difficult it is for the Entity to find the user.
Infotracker 20, Research 20%, Cost: 200, Rarity: 10%
Infotracker 30, Research 30%, Cost: 400, Rarity: 13%
Infotracker 40, Research 40%, Cost: 1000, Rarity: 14%
Gaianware Infotracker 50, Research: 50%, Cost: 1500, Rarity: 15%
Gaia Personal Assistant
Type: AI
This Artificially Intelligent Entity will remain in one location and take/give messages for you. To allow anyone to leave a message, the Entity must be placed in a Public Space. The Entity may be sent with a message for a specific person with instructions on how to give the message. 
Although Unique through its AI, the appearance of the Entity can either be the rather boring ‘Neohuman’, a very generic looking human Entity or a unique and attractive form. Attractive Personal Assistants cost more. The more you pay, the more attractive they will be. The Personal Assistant will not follow the user around Gaia, it needs to be placed manually by the user. Most people place a Personal Entity in the Public Space of their apartment.
Shell Ent. Personal Assistant. Neohuman. Cost: 200. Rarity: 2%
Shell Ent. Personal Assistant. Mythological Creatures. Cost: 500. Rarity: 5%
Shell Ent. Personal Assistant. Famous People.
Gaianware. Personal Assistant. Male/Female. Cost: 400 - 5000. Rarity: 3%-10%
E2. Personal Assistant. Executive Package. Cost: 6000 - 8000. Rarity: 11%
Training Entities
A training Entity is an immersive Gaia simulation that people use to learn new skills. Training Entities will not be able to train as well as another human or experience but they can be used to start someone off in a Skill. Every Training Entity comes with a cap of the highest Skill percentage they can train someone to. The more expensive the training Entity, the higher the skill that can be attained. 
A Training Entity can only train in a single skill and are unique Entities. More than one person can train through the Entity.
For the rules using the Entities, see Improving Skills on page 6.
Training Entity up to 25%, 9000.
Training Entity up to 35%, 15 000.
Training Entity up to 55%, 20 000.
Hacking Entities
Hacking Entities are Artificially Intelligent and illegal tools to assist a Hacker in breaking into Gaia volumes and moving around in them. Some provide more information to allow a Hacker a better chance of finding their task, others aid in dealing with Entities inside the system. Hacking Entities can be sought out in the Undergaia or created by the character. Finding a dealer in the Undergaia is more than a simple skill check - you must be introduced, perform a favour and demonstrate you are not a Star Enforcer before you get anywhere near the actual Entities. 
Most Hackers write their own (see Writing Your Own Entities) and must pass Hacking and Artificial Intelligence skill checks.
A Hacker can carry many Hacking Entities on their Gaiacard but if they are discovered by a Star Enforcer then they may be arrested as a dealer, rather than simply a Hacker. Owning Hacking Entities are illegal but Star Enforcers need hard evidence that an Entity has been used to perform an illegal act. However if your character is carrying many of them on their Gaia card, then that is all the evidence needed to be arrested as a dealer.
Back Door 
Type: Hacking AI
Allows access back into a system once the character been there. Best used when deep inside a system to gain entry with one roll rather than having to hack all the way in.
Cost: 5000
Modifier to use: -20%
Refail
Type: Hacking AI
Covers up the character’s error and allows another try. When you fail a dice roll, use Refail to re-roll it. You can only use one Refail in a Hacking session.
Cost: 6000
Modifier to use: -20%
Trail
Type: Hacking AI
Follows another user or Entity on Gaia. Normally used to follow non-Gaia savvy targets as it is not particularly subtle. If the Character is being trailed by a Trail Hacking entity, the Character must make a Hacking check to detect and another to destroy it.
Most members of the public can be tracked with Trail.
Cost: 3500
Modifier to use: -10%
Stealth Trail
Type: Hacking AI
Follows another user or any item on Gaia and reports back every minute on their location. Successful Hacking check at Tricky (-30%) difficulty required to detect and unmodified Hacking check to destroy.
Stealth Trail is intended for tracking Gaia-savvy targets. For members of the general public, use the much cheaper Trail.
Cost: 5000
Modifier to use: -20%
Chameleon
Type: Hacking AI
Make any object in Gaia (doors, cars, trucks) look like something else. Requires Gaia Know roll at Hard to detect the Chameleon and see the real object underneath it. Once the Chameleon is used to take on a form, it can only be used for that form. For example, if the Chameleon is used to hide a car as a Hauler then the Chameleon will only ever be able to represent a Hauler.
Cost: 3000
Modifier to use: -20%
Looper
Type: Hacking AI
Loops all the real world sensors (camera, heat, movement etc) within 50m. Anyone moving around in that area will not be picked up by security. Includes weapon and medical scans. This can be dangerous if used near medical facilities and as such Loopers are searched for in those areas with particular gusto.
Cost: 2000
Modifier to use: -10%
Generator Overloader
Type: Hacking AI
Solid state generators do not explode easily but a special AI Hacking Entity can be created to push them to the point of explosion. The Generator Overloader is easy to remove but must be done when physically at the generator. The larger the generator, the longer it takes to overload. Small generators (lights, cameras) take 20 seconds up to large (spacecraft, buildings), which take up to 10 minutes. Generators powering bionics cannot be overloaded with this Entity because there is a user constantly at the physical location of the generator!
Cost: 4000
Modifier to use: -30%
Soft Light Projectors
Soft Light is holographic technology, created using a Soft Light projector. Unlike Hard Light, soft light cannot produce a force. It is just light. It shines, can be made into animations and may appear to be very real but it cannot affect the rest of the world except shining light onto it. Soft Light can render Gaia Entities in the real world but those entities will only be visual representations, they cannot directly affect anything.
Soft Light objects are normally used by artists. Soft Light Entities can be animated in the real world and can be as large, complex and beautiful as you need.
If a Soft Light projection is made to look real, the only way to detect that it is a hologram (without touching it) is using augmented sensors, such as EM or EG. 
Soft Light in advertising
The most common use of holographic soft light is advertising from brightly coloured displays showcasing a latest product to a soft light human that walks alongside you and acts as a salesperson. In some colonies, having a Soft Light salesperson is seen as an insult, whereas elsewhere it is seen as a useful tool.
Soft Light in art and entertainment
Soft light is a malleable form of expression that is used alongside music. Huge Soft Light projections are used by artists to entertain and delight. Celebrations are often accompanied by beautiful displays of Soft Light. In ‘In Fizz’ nightclubs, a Soft Light artists will be employed alongside a DJ to create art on the fly to improve the experience of the revellers.
Costs
Soft Light projectors are relatively inexpensive. Their size relates to how large a volume they can project into. As a guide to the sizes:
Shop floor area or whole apartment: 100
Entire floor of a mex building: 5000
1km x 1km x 1km volume: 10 000
The artistry involved in the projection acts as a multiple. Stock celebratory images (such as Happy Birthday) will cost the same as the prices listed above. A jobbing designer will have a multiplier of 1.5 times and famous artists up to 5 times.
Hard Light Projectors
Hard Light projectors allow you to animate Entities in the real world. In a holoroom Gaia terminal, any Hard Light Entity can be animated without any fuss. When outside a Holoroom, creating a Hard Light shape is more difficult. Unfortunately, the more complex an Entity, the more expensive the projector needs to be. The projector acts as its own self contained unit and Hard Light objects can be loaded onto it.
To use a Hard Light projector, use a Gaia terminal to move a hard light object onto the projector. From this point on, you can animate the object by squeezing the middle of the projector and throwing it. As soon as the projector is clear of your hand, it will animate the Hard Light object you’ve set it to. There are a couple of exceptions to this (Hard Light swords) but most projectors follow this method.
To de-animate, the object will have a way of deanimating it (such as a simple switch or pad to press). The object with instantly deanimate. Anything resting (or sitting) on the object will fall to the ground.
Limitations
A Hard Light projection has a zero armour rating (AR) and hit points (HP). You can’t use a Hard Light image as armour. If it takes any damage, it will de-animate.
Only complex Hard Light items can have a Blast Factor, otherwise none. You cannot make bullets or lasers out of Hard Light.
The object will not animate if there is an obstruction. You can’t animate a 2m square box inside a 1m square box.
Hard Light projectors can only sense when the objects is being touched. It cannot sense anything else unless it is part of a more complex system.
Complexity
The more complex the object, the more expensive the projector. For simplicity, projectors are produced with three complexity types: Low, Medium and High. A description of each is given below.
Low
No moving parts. No sharp edges. No complex materials. Low detail.
Inflatable chair, Walking stick.
Medium
Some small moving parts. Some detail. No sharp edges.
Recliner chair, Umbrella, Parachute.
High
Nearly all of the High Complexity projectors are a special case as they nearly always make part of another system. They are often expensive, rare and easily replaced with a real-world version that does the job just as well.
Some small moving parts. High level of detail. Sharp edges.
Sword (special case), Automaton.
Automatons
Buying an Automaton is not like buying a car. It’s more like buying a pet. Not only are there physical attributes to account for but there is also a personality to decide upon. It is personality that is most important to most people. Every Automaton is different. Buying an Automaton follows these steps:
Choose either new or second hand
Choose a Model
Decide on a name
Select a Personality Template
Add Skills
New or Second Hand
Brand new Automatons begin with plain personalities, whereas second hand, older Automatons can have quite extreme personalities formed by their experiences. Due to their quirky nature (and better Skills), older Automatons are more expensive than new ones. Older Automatons also appear to have more ‘common sense’, because they are used to operating in a human world. New Automatons are treated like children that have a gift for a few defined subjects but are terrible in general social situations.
The Appendix of this book shows new Automatons only. To make up a second hand one, use the given new ones, reduce the hit points to indicate damage, set the personality as an extreme version of one of the templates and add some Skills. To calculate cost, make up the Automaton as if it is new and then multiply using the following table. For really old Automatons (100 years or more), then their value can be just about anything. The Auto can be too eccentric to be useful to anyone or be very knowledgeable and thus priceless.
The affect of an Automaton’s age on its value
Age (years)	Value Multiplier
1-5	x 1
6-20	x 2
21-50	x 3
51-100	x 4
101+	See paragraph

Choose a Model
Automatons come in two forms, Humanoid and Industrial.
Humanoid Automatons are designed to integrate with society. They are based on the human form. The more expensive ones have realistic synthetic skin and are difficult to tell apart from humans without using some sort of sensors. All Humanoid Automatons come with a basic personality and a basic human empathy such that they can hold conversations and understand tone and meaning.
Industrial Automatons are more like complex robots of old. Normally large, strong and designed to perform a particular range of tasks. They simply obey human instructions and are trained such that they have an affinity with technical subjects. They understand any tools that are fitted to them and are normally trained to be able to work on a particular group of tasks.
Decide on a name
A name might be a frivolous idea to the players and Characters but to the Automaton, it’s very important. It is the first connection that the Automaton has to the human world.
Applicable to new Automatons only.
Select a Personality Template
An Automaton’s personality is represented by a cut-down Deviant Wheel, similar to the one on the normal Character sheet. A Personality Template is an initial Deviant Wheel that you pick from the list given below. Over time, the Automaton’s personality will grow from this first step.
An automaton is judged by a cut down Deviant wheel: Serious, Calm, Introvert, Machine, Virtuous. And their opposites are on the other side of the wheel. The different facets are described below:
Serious
A serious Automaton is one that has not yet developed a sense of humour. A sense of humour is normally associated with Automatons that have experienced a lot. Therefore, brand new Automatons are unlikely to have a well developed sense of humour.
Calm
Most Automatons appear to be calm when they are new but they soon become excitable. If your Automaton will be under fire, this facet should be high. If your Automaton will be looking after children, then a low value is preferred.
Introvert
An introverted Automaton is a quiet one and keeps itself to itself. It will not go out of its way to make friends and be helpful to humans. However, if talked to then an introverted Automaton will politely hold conversation.
Machine
This is a measure of how machine-like the Automaton’s personality is. It is intrinsically linked to the other personality facet. Initial personality templates are always set to 4.
Virtuous
This is a measure of how naive the Automaton is. Will it automatically believe anything that’s told to it or is it a more questioning Automaton. Initial personality templates are always set to 4.
Personality Templates
Amicable
The Amicable personality template is a good starting point for any Automaton buyer. It is the default template for the buyer who is not sure what task the Automaton will perform. An Amicable Automaton is calm, respectful, serious and will look for opportunities to be helpful. It is how you might expect an Automaton to be.
Clown
The clown is a lively, fun and outgoing. They make excellent companions rather than business Automatons. The Clown personality template is most often found with Automatons who are involved in child care. Their light hearted view on the world make them popular with children.
Austere
The Austere Automaton is ideal for business. Serious, calm, capable and an air of servitude. This Automaton personality will not embarrass you or your company.
Add Skills
To make your Automaton really useful to the team as a whole, ensure that it has Skills that fill gaps in the team’s abilities. Automaton Skills come with a Skill percentage, cost a certain amount of money and take time for the Automaton to learn. The more complex the Skill, the more expensive it is and the longer it takes to learn.
Automaton Skills
Skill	Price	Time	Start	Max
Spacecraft Know	11 000	8h	30	60
Spacecraft Systems	24 000	14h	20	40
Mechasys Know	7 000	6h	30	60
Mechasys Systems	9 000	6h	20	40
Vehicle Know	7 000	6h	35	60
Vehicle Systems	9 000	6h	25	40
Energy Know	8 000	7h	30	60
Energy Systems	10 000	9h	20	40
History	5 000	5h	20	70
Law	5 000	5h	20	70
Ecopolitical	10 000	20h	20	60
Socioeconomics	15 000	30h	20	40
Botanics	10 000	20h	20	60
Biological	10 000	20h	20	60
Food Science	15 000	30h	20	40
Macroecology	15 000	30h	20	40
Physical	10 000	20h	20	60
Macromechanics	15 000	30h	20	40
Astromechanics	15 000	30h	20	40
Bike Pilot	8 000	10h	20	40
Grav Pilot	8 000	10h	20	40
Heavy Grav Pilot	8 000	10h	20	40
Cruiser Pilot	10 000	15h	20	40
Med Basic	8 000	10h	40	60
Med Diagnosis	15 000	15h	20	60
Med Surgery	30 000	30h	20	60

Weapons
An Icar campaign is an arms race. As your character grows, so too will their armament. As your character wields more powerful weapons, so will the enemies it faces. A weapon speaks volumes about your character. A Nelson pistol represents the innocence of the civilian; the Igniter: a precision killer and the Korg is brutality incarnate.
This section describes the technologies used in weapons. A description of what all the statistics mean can be found in Firefighting on page 10. This is not meant to be a definitive list of all the weapons; more detail and weapons can be found in the Equipment Index, which can be downloaded from the web site.
Close Combat Technology
Close Combat weapons are used by people who cannot afford ammunition or wish to go unnoticed. Very few Firearms can be concealed like a knife or short sword. Blades can be made very sharp, able to pierce armours that projectile firearms (such as a rifle or pistol) cannot. Close Combat technology is based around concealment and sharpness.
Close combat weapons do damage depending on the strength of the user. What makes them different is their sharpness (Blast Factor/BF). Damage and Stun for different weapons can be found in Hand Weapons on page 13.
Polyceramic Alloy
Easy to manufacture and make very sharp indeed, Polyceramic alloy is the favourite material for thugs and the street.
Blast Factor: 15
Natural Polyceramic Unibody
A weapon made from a single organic-like material that contains veins and fissures like human bone and tissue. Weapons made with this technology are not detectable on Level 2 Tech Scans or below.
Blast Factor: 32
Hard Light
Hard Light blades use Hard Light projectors (see Hard Light Projectors on page 86) to create a blade of photon-width sharpness. When deanimated, the Hard Light blade is a handle with a solid state generator. As such, they are difficult to conceal and are visible on even the simplest of scans. Their Blast Factor is 100, which cuts all armours and shields too. Hard Light weapons are rare and often seen as an expensive fashion accessory. Most bionic Akarakian warriors carry a Hard Light sword.
Blast Factor: 100
Firearm Technology
Firearms are grouped into Projectile and Energy weapons. Projectile weapons fire solid slugs of hardened metal, whereas Energy weapons fire raw energy.
Firearm Ammunition Comparison
Description	Rarity	Cost	BF
Projectile 2.2 - Pistols, SMG	5%	1	10 to 20
Projectile 5.5 - Assault Rifle	10%	5	25 to 50
Projectile 7.4 - Machine gun	20%	50	55 to 75
Projectile 10.2 - Shells	75%	100	70 to 80
Energy 5 or 10 Gauge - Pulse	40%	30	100
Energy 15 Gauge - Pulse Laser	50%	80	100
Energy 20 Gauge - Pulse Laser (space craft)	20%	200	100

Projectile and Chain
Projectile weapons fire sharpened lumps of ceramic alloy. They fire using the polarity of energy-doped materials, not a chemical propellant and are therefore more like rail guns than 20th Century firearms. The whole round is accelerated down the barrel, there are no cases or muzzle flash. Most projectile weapons still make a bang sound as the sudden acceleration of the round breaks the sound barrier.
Projectile ammunition comes in 3 sizes marked with a P: 2.2P, 5.5P and 7.4P. They are analogous to 9mm, 7.62mm and a canon shell respectively. 7.4 is dealt with differently because of its size and the momentum it carries. Weapons that fire 7.4 is referred to as Chain guns as the ammunition is normally found in belts called chains. 
Pulse and Pulse Laser
Pulse and Pulse Laser weapons both use energy rounds about the size of a traditional  20th Century Staedtler eraser. Each round is a solidified block of raw energy. Until fired, the rounds are inert, throwing a grenade into a bag of them will not make them explode. All energy weapons have a Blast Factor of 100. Energy ammunition comes in gauges, which measures their potency rather than their size: 5G (pulse pistols), 10G (pulse rifles), 15G (pulse laser) and 20G (spacecraft mounted pulse laser).
When a pulse round is converted into energy, it can take many forms. For example, it can be purely kinetic energy that will knock the target over when fired. Without the weapon specifying a type of energy, the pulse will pass through whatever it can until it runs out of damage. Pulse holes tend to be burnt or melted at the edge. Pulse rounds are only in 5G and 10G sizes.
Pulse Laser rounds are much like default pulse rounds but are bound with light so the type of energy it turns into on contact remains the same. They tend to do more damage, have higher rates of fire and are more common. They are the de facto standard weapon for spacecraft mounted weapons. Pulse laser rounds are only in 15G and 20G sizes.
Grav Balancing
Grav balancing is an anti-gravity system that reduces the mass of the weapon, making it lighter. Grav balancing also reduces the kick of a weapon when fired, helping the user to keep the weapon pointed at its intended target. All weapons are fitted with a Grav balancing system. The weight of the weapon is due to the generator required to accelerate the rounds.
Grenades
Much like in the 20th Century, grenades are mini explosive devices. They can be thrown or fired from a weapon and can have a number of different detonation options that are decided before the grenade is fired. 
Grenades come in two sizes: Low Velocity Grenades (LVG) and High Velocity Grenades (HVG). LVGs are the size of a ‘D’ Cell battery and have a typical blast radius of 25m. These can be thrown. LVGs come in a vast array of applications, both destructive and pacifying. HVGs are much more powerful, the size of a 20th Century can of Coca Cola and have a typical blast radius of 50m. They are always destructive and usually fired (you have to be augmented to throw it far enough for you to not be in its blast radius).
Grenades to damage to everything in their radius. For a human, that would mean applying the damage to head, left arm, right arm, torso, left leg and right leg separately. For a fragmentation LVG, that would be 100 points to each location, or 600 points in total. For larger objects than people, take an estimate of how much damage it takes. The larger it is, the more it takes.
Triggers (Optional)
Grenades normally explode when they hit something. However, all grenades come with a variety of triggers that allow the user to specify the conditions under which they explode. These can be quite complicated and are up to the player to describe, they include:
On a timer.
When something passes nearby
When hot or cold
When hit really hard indeed
When tampered with
Low Velocity Grenades (LVG)
LVGs are the size of a ‘D’ Cell battery and have a typical blast radius of 25m. They can be thrown but are normally fired from a weapon.
LVGs come in a variety of different types such as stun, smoke, fragmentation and napalm. The statistics for each are show below.
Low Velocity Grenades (LVG)
Description	Rarity	Cost	BF	Damage	Stun
Stun	20%	100	0	0	200
Fragmentation	20%	200	30	100	100
Napalm	30%	250	35	50/turn	50
Impact Foam	35%	300	0	N/A	N/A
Gravity Shock	50%	1000	0	N/A	N/A
Anti-Motion Tracker smoke	30%	600	0	N/A	N/A
Temporary Energy Sink (TES)	75%	2000	100	N/A	N/A
Energy Disruption (ED)	90%	10 000	100	N/A	N/A

Impact Foam
An Impact Foam grenade is filled with compressed foam. Upon impact, the grenade fills a volume of 10m x 10m x 10m with a fast-solidifying protective foam. Anything inside the foam is then protected from impact as the foam acts as a energy soak. Impact Foam grenades can be triggered inside Grav Cars just before impact or used inside space crates. The foam dissolves to nothing after an hour. The foam is oxygen and water rich, so anyone encased in it can survive without harm. The foam is not armoured and will only protect the inhabitants from damage and stun caused by an impact.
Gravity Shock
A Gravity Shock grenade temporarily applies a different frame of gravity to the affected area. At the centre of the explosion, everything is subjected to 10g of force. The effect wears off toward the edge. The affect is instantaneous and lasts for only 3 seconds (the length of a combat turn). No damage or stun is done directly but those inside the shock area may well 
Temporary Energy Sink (TES)
A Temporary Energy Sink explosion depletes energy within its radius for a number of turns (specified on the grenade). Bionics will find it difficult to move, weapons will become useless and Grav cars will lose their ability to fly. Although they work for a few seconds, their affect can be devastating.
TES grenades are illegal but can be sourced on the black market as their technology is comparatively simple.
Energy Disruption (ED)
Energy Disruption grenades deplete the raw energy from a generator on a small scale. This has the devastating effect of halting bionics, bring down Grav Cars, shutting down weapons, shutting off lights, dropping shields and jamming doors within its radius. They ignore armour and shields.
They are only used by the Imperium in extreme circumstances and are otherwise an illegal technology. ED grenades do not work on any generator than that carried in a Hauler or Orbihaul - nor can they be chained together to destroy the generators of spacecraft.
High Velocity Grenades (HVG)
HVGs are powerful explosives that can be fired over long distances. HVGs are cheaper alternatives to missiles and are the size of the 20th Century can of Coca Cola. The weapons required to fire HVGs tend to be more expensive and the weight of the grenades themselves is quite high. A mercenary that carries HVGs is likely to earn prestige amongst other mercenaries.
High Velocity Grenades (HVG)
Description	Rarity	Cost	BF	Damage	Stun
Fragmentation	30%	500	60	400	200
Napalm	40%	600	65	200/turn	100

Missiles
Missiles are guided explosives that rely upon a mix of Grav lift and chemical propellant. Missiles are not favoured by most combatants as they are often unreliable and intelligent defence can be used to redirect or avoid the blast.
Missiles come in two sizes: micromissile and SWIRL. Micromissile  and SWIRLs are treated exactly the same as LVGs and HVG grenades.
The user does not need to have line of sight when shooting missiles and they take a turn to hit their target.
Unpowered Armour
Armour is extremely important. Weapons in Icar can shred you in a second. Unpowered armour and environment suits come in a variety of types (listed below) and styles.
Styles of Armour
For each type of armour (for example Moss Sports Impact Armour), many styles and colours can be ordered. All of these armours can be purchased as an Oversuit - a baggy over-clothing boiler suit or as a Second Skin (goes under clothes like a very thin wet suit) at no extra cost. Second skin armours do not protect your clothing or personal affects (such as Gaiacard) so be careful where you go.  Oversuits are conspicuous and can be worn as a fashion statement. Helmets for all of these armours collapse into the collar when not required and do not restrict view when in use. 
Extra-Vehicular (EV) Armour
Some armours will protect you in hazardous environments such as space or on planets where the temperature is very high or low with toxic atmospheres. EV-suits are special armours made just for that purpose, whereas Powered Armour tends to have EV properties by default. Basic EV suits are Oversuits, rather than second skin. This is because clothing may not survive the rigours of the environment you have chosen to go out into. For example, a leather jacket may be fine in space but in a 250 degree maelstrom with acid-rich atmosphere, it won’t last long.
Moss Sports Impact
AR	H	LA	T	RA	LL	RL	Stun
12	200	150	600	150	200	200	500

Cost: 500
Rarity: 10%
Styles available: Oversuit, Second Skin
Encumbrance: 0
Worn by all serious bikers, Most Sports Impact Armour is designed to help the wearer survive falling off. The emphasis of this armour is light weight and shock resistance while acting as a thickened skin against penetration. As with all sports armour, it is normally worn in a second skin style.
Moss Spots Impact Hardened
AR	H	LA	T	RA	LL	RL	Stun
25	500	300	1000	300	400	400	200

Cost: 1500
Rarity: 12%
Styles available: Oversuit, Second skin.
Encumbrance: 1
A tougher armour designed more to stop damage, even if the wearer is unconscious at the time. Favoured by those who take part in combat oriented sports.
Moss Spots Weave Impact Hardened
AR	H	LA	T	RA	LL	RL	Stun
38	600	300	1200	300	400	400	400

Cost: 2400
Rarity: 16%
Styles available: Oversuit, Second skin.
Encumbrance: 2
The premiere sports armour worn by the upper echelons of the sporting fraternity. Although it does not have a very high Stun, the extra protection against high penetrating projectiles is a much desired feature.
Moss EV Suit
AR	H	LA	T	RA	LL	RL	Stun
10	200	300	800	300	400	400	200

Cost: 400
Rarity: 10%
Styles available:  Oversuit
Hours EV: 120
Sensors: EM
Encumbrance: 0
The stock Moss Environment (EV) Suit is the ubiquitous protective clothing. The Moss EV Suit will protect against vacuum; fire; extreme cold (-200C) and heat (+300C); radiation; pressure (20 ATM). Cheap and found everywhere, the Moss EV suit is the reliable suit of choice.
Moss Hardened EV Suit
AR	H	LA	T	RA	LL	RL	Stun
30	600	500	1700	500	700	700	300

Cost: 3000
Rarity: 20%
Encumbrance: 1
Styles available:  Oversuit, Second Skin
Hours EV: 150
Sensors: EM
This is the armoured version of the popular Moss EV Suit. The protection levels are the same as the stock EV suit: it will protect against vacuum; fire; extreme cold (-200C) and heat (+300C); radiation; pressure (20 ATM). Where this suit differs is the improvement in Armour, protecting the user from impact and stun damage.
Moss Engineer EV Suit
AR	H	LA	T	RA	LL	RL	Stun
45	600	600	2200	600	700	700	250

Cost: 4800
Rarity: 40%
Encumbrance: 2
Styles available:  Oversuit
Hours EV: 200
Sensors: EM, EG
Engineers are often placed into hazardous situations. Any serious star craft engineer will be equipped with Engineer armour. The protection levels are the same as the stock EV suit: it will protect against vacuum; fire; extreme cold (-200C) and heat (+300C); radiation; pressure (20 ATM). When wearing the engineer suit, a Shakespeare Tech kit (or similar, not included) does not count for encumbrance.
Moss Expeditionary EV Suit
AR	H	LA	T	RA	LL	RL	Stun
50	1500	1900	2900	1900	1900	1900	300

Cost: 11500
Rarity: 55%
Encumbrance: 2
Styles available: Oversuit, Second Skin
Hours EV: 200
Sensors: EM, EG, EN
Meat required: 3+
For those travelling to more dangerous parts of the cosmos, Moss’s Expeditionary Armour is the toughest unpowered armour they offer. Incorporating Moss’s typical EV specifications (it will protect against vacuum; fire; extreme cold (-200C) and heat (+300C); radiation; pressure (20 ATM)).
Personal Shield Generators
Personal Shield generators are a popular way to provide a compact protection against damage. For rules on shields see Shields on page 9. Shields form an invisible layer around the user’s form - including their clothing and anything they are carrying (within reason, a personal shield will not cover an entire Grav Car but will cover the driver). They only work from the outside in, allowing you to fire out through them. All shields have an AR of 100.
Anything with a small mass hitting the shield with great energy will have its energy sapped from it. This includes bullets, shrapnel and meteorites. Heavier objects moving quickly will transfer its energy onto the user of the shield without stun and damage. This might disable the shield (GM decides). 
For example, if you are hit by a speeding car, you will be thrown back and the shield will shut down. You will not take damage (you might take Stun at the GM’s discretion). If you fall from a great height (more than 20m), a normal shield will not be able to slow you down gently enough and you will take Stun and some damage.
Moss Suresafe Shield
Cost: 1800
Hit Point Soak: 300 (per turn)
Rarity: 70%
Whether you are scavenging in debris or taking fire from void pirates then the Suresafe shield is for you. Capable of soaking up enough damage to keep you safe in most hazard areas.
Moss Standfirm Shield
Cost: 3000
Hit Points Soak: 400 (per turn)
Rarity: 75%
Sometimes you need that little extra protection for a little extra danger. The Standfirm is the shield for you. 
Moss Expeditionary Shield
Cost: 7000
Hit Points Soak: 500 (per turn)
Rarity:80%
Treasure hunts that cross the Light Jump Net need that extra amount of safety and security. Moss has taken extra care to ensure that their expeditionary shield is suitable in even the harshest of environments.
Aubury Personal Shield
Cost: 20 000
Hit Points Soak: 800 (per turn)
Rarity: 85%
The Aubury personal shield comes in a discrete wallet that can be carried in an inside pocket. When switched on, it can protect the discerning executive from a barrage.
Powered Armour
Powered armour (PA) is armour whose joints are supported by energy powered motors that give the wearer extra strength, speed and the ability to carry more - armour, sensors, weapons and supporting technology. 
Most Powered Armours are Oversuits and tend to be bulky and powerful. There are some Second Skin style Powered Armour suits but they tend to be extremely expensive. Most Powered Armour suits allow you to carry more, shown as a positive encumbrance.
Generic Powered Armour Systems
All powered armours have the following systems.
Life Support
Life support includes breathing apparatus and waste recycling (back into water and food). Life support will refresh automatically when it is in an environment other than vacuum.
The length of time that a user can survive in the suit is known as Extra Vehicular EV (outside the space craft) and is measured in hours. This time is given as a guide, assuming that the user  is in a vacuum and working quite hard. If the user passes into a nebula, other space craft or even hazardous planet surface then the suit will make use of whatever resources it can to refresh its systems and even allow the user to survive indefinitely.
All powered armours protect against vacuum; fire; extreme cold (-200C); and heat (+300C); radiation; pressure (20 ATM).
Emergency ejection
If the powered armour suffers a critical failure, it can mechanically eject the pilot. The suit is clever enough to understand whether doing this is best for the user.
Grav Pack
A Grav Pack allows the suit to fly and manoeuvre in space. Grav Packs are not intended for use in combat and are slow and unresponsive. If performing any kind of vehicle combat using a stock Grav Pack then use your Powered Armour Use skill like you would Pilot Grav. Unless otherwise specified, the Grav Pack statistics are:

Moss Gryphon
AR	H	LA	T	RA	LL	RL	Stun
30	1500	2000	3900	2000	2000	2000	400

Cost: 12 000
Rarity: 40%
Minimum Shift: 2
Meat: +2
Shift: - 1
Encumbrance: +3
Skill Required: Powered Armour Use
Styles available: Oversuit
Sensors: EM, EN, MT (100m)
Extra Vehicular (EV): 240 hours
The Gryphon Powered Armour suit is an entry level powered armour suit favoured by those who need powered EV capabilities.
Features
Glow skin - lights up an area around the suit
Moss Pegasus
AR	H	LA	T	RA	LL	RL	Stun
45	2000	2000	4500	2000	2200	2200	450

Cost: 18 000
Rarity: 50%
Meat: +3
Shift: +3
Encumbrance: +5
Skill Required: Powered Armour Use
Styles available: Oversuit
Sensors: EM, EN, MT (100m)
Extra Vehicular (EV): 240 hours
Shields: 2, soak 3000 per turn.
The Pegasus powered armour suit is for those who work in space or hazard environments on a professional level.
Features
Glow skin - lights up an area around the suit.
Integral Shakespeare Universal Tech kit - see the section on tech kits in the Engineering Chapter.
Moss Genie
AR	H	LA	T	RA	LL	RL	Stun
60	2000	2000	5000	2000	2800	2800	500

Cost: 25 000
Rarity: 55%
Meat: +5
Shift: +2
Encumbrance: +7
Skill Required: Powered Armour Use
Styles available: Oversuit
Sensors: EM, EN, MT (100m)
Extra Vehicular (EV): 280 hours
Shields: 4, soak 3000 per turn.
The Genie is the heaviest of the Moss suits and is designed for those wanting extra protection and shielding. Of the standard Moss Powered Armours, it is the most desirable before the prices become astronomical.
Features
Glow skin - lights up an area around the suit.
Integral Shakespeare Universal Tech kit - see the section on tech kits in the Engineering Chapter.
Aubury Powered Second Skin Armour
AR	H	LA	T	RA	LL	RL	Stun
55	2500	2000	6000	2000	2500	2500	450

Cost: 50 000
Rarity: 70%
Minimum Shift: 2
Meat: +5
Shift: +3
Encumbrance: +7
Skill Required: Powered Armour Use
Styles available: Second Skin only
Sensors: EM, EN, MT (100m)
Extra Vehicular (EV): 300 hours
Shields: 4, soak 8000 per turn, and a heat shield for re-entry.
Grav Pack: Using both a Grav engine a series of micro turbines, the Grav Pack has superior speed and manoeuvrability.

Features
Glow skin - lights up an area around the suit.
Integral Shakespeare Universal Tech kit - see the section on tech kits in the Engineering Chapter.
Orbit to surface. 2 hours from orbit to surface.
Integral Grav field generator.
Engineering
Engineering technology covers the tools of the trade of engineer. There are two ways to approach engineering technology: Tech Kits or Advanced. For most players, a Tech Kit is enough detail. Owning a Tech Kit will enable the character to do technical things and will give a bonus to Skill checks.
Advanced items are for when both the GM and the player are comfortable with technology and want a little more detail. Most technical characters will want to start with a Tech Kit and then add the Advanced items as the gaming group gets more comfortable with the setting.
Tech Kits
Each Tech Kit provides the character with the ability to solve the vast majority of technical tasks. The precise content of the Tech Kit is not listed - assume it contains the far future variants of everything you would find in a well stocked toolbox today.
Any Tech Kit can be used by any branch of the Technology Skill tree. If the character specialises in Colony Technologies or Vehicle Technology, the core tech items are the same. The only exception is that Gaia technology Skills do not get bonuses with Tech Kits.
Contents of a Typical Tech Kit
A Tech Kit will contain the following:
Weld Tape
A strong, sticky tape that can be used to bind any two things together. Can only be split using an energy cutter. Weld Tape is future Duct Tape (gaffer tape).
Atomic Slip
A spray-on lubricant fluid that helps move two surfaces that are stuck together with friction. The spray fluid is atom-wide and can slide between two surfaces that appear to be touching, even to the naked eye.
Energy Cutter
A cross between a circular saw and a chainsaw, the energy cutter will cut through anything. The larger the hole you want, the longer it will take. A human sized doorway through a wall of armour rating 15 will take approximately 30 seconds. A hole enough to reach an arm through will take 3 seconds.
Allosealer
The allosealer can join any two inorganic items together. Welding shut a typical door takes approximately 15 seconds, air locks 30 seconds.
Flux Cable
Flux cables are power cables that can be used to feed power between two places. Tech Kit flux cable tends to be light and long (20 metres). A typical flux cable will just hold the weight of a typical human and is as bulk as a 20th Century USB cable.
Screamer
Screamers attach to the power grid (called energy web) of any object and allow Hackers to gain access to it. This is important for spacecraft hacking because spacecraft cannot be hacked from physically outside without a screamer being in place. Typically, engineers will secrete screamers on a spacecraft before it departs and then the Hackers can gain access when required.
Small Generator
Solid state generators power everything in the Icar universe and having a solid state generator can power a car, keep an augmented human alive, provide power to a dead airlock, provide a needed boost in a tight spot and more.
Torque Gun
If you need something opening, such as an air lock then a torque gun will provide the force you need.
Third Hand
The third hand is a hovering claw about the same size as a human hand that is used for holding things still while the engineer works. It obeys voice commands of its owner and has the same strength as another strong human.
Shakespeare Universal Tech Kit
The Shakespeare Universal Tech Kit (known to technologists as simple The Universal) is the entry level Tech Kit used by engineers across the Galaxy. It contains everything needed to fix the very large and the very small. 
The Universal is a reliable set of folding tools in a soft memory fabric that grips the tools, which cannot slip out.
Cost: 2000
Rarity: 5%
Encumbrance: 3
Nanofactory
A Nanofactory is a self contained factory that can take in raw materials (such as metals, ore and minerals), a design and from those make any object (from generator parts through to weapons). 
The Nanofactory may also be used to recycle metals from objects that are no longer of use. While creating, the Nanofactory should be kept as still as possible. A part can take between 10 minutes and 10 hours, depending on complexity. 
A Nanofactory cannot make a part that is larger than itself although once creates the parts can be assembled into something much larger. Nanofactories come in a huge variety of sizes that fit into one of three size groups:
Pocket: For creating weapons, parts for Grav Bikes and cars and small gadgets. Cost: 2500. Encumbrance: 2
Mech Bay: For creating any vehicle part, building and space craft parts. Cost: 50 000.
Orbital: For creating huge space superstructures. Cost: 10 000 000+ (more if you are a long way from civilisation).
Using Nanofactories
To create something using a Nanofactory, roll the appropriate Systems skill for the piece you are creating. If you are designing the item then you will need a Design skill check too. To create the design, you will need a Gaiacard.
For example, you wish to create a brand new sighting system for a gun. Roll Weapon Design first and if successful roll Weapon Systems to create the piece.
Harnesses
Carrying lots of Tech items can eat up your encumbrance. A tech harness is a discrete series of straps that can be worn under clothing and armour (but not Powered Armour). Inorganic items can be made to stick to the harness and released when needed. More expensive harnesses use delicate Grav fields to help reduce the mass of the items, increasing the amount that can be carried.
Shakespeare Tech Harness
Cost: 700
Encumbrance: +2
Shift > 4 to use.
Moss Tech Harness
Cost: 2500
Encumbrance: +4
Shift > 6 to use.
Grav Field Generator
A Grav field generator changes the gravity within a bubble. The size of the bubble that can created depends on the power of the generator but the gravity strength can be anything from zero to 10 times Earth’s gravity (0g to 10g). 
It takes 3 seconds (1 turn) to turn on or off, so items don’t immediately slam into each other. The edge of the bubble is very distinct, anything outside the bubble will behave as normal. While switched on, the Grav Field Generator cannot be moved.
The Grav Field Generator can be used to make working in a micro G environment (such as space or disabled space craft) much easier.
Shakespeare Standard Grav Field Generator
Cost: 800
Rarity: 20%
Encumbrance: 1
Bubble size: 15m
Shakespeare Professional Grav Field Generator
Cost: 2500
Rarity: 25%
Encumbrance: 2
Bubble size: 30m
Med Kits
Med Kits help medics repair people. Each Med Kit gives a bonus to any Skill check in the Medical Skill Tree. The larger the Med Kit, the easier it is for the Medic to heal people. The top end Tech Kits can heal a bunch of Hit Points each day. The contents includes:
Med Scanner
Affectionately known as the “Wibbly-Wee”, the Med Scanner performs a non-invasive scan of a human or bionic infrastructure. It can detect any medical problem from toxins to neurological breakdown. It helps the Medic quickly diagnose the most urgent problems and deal with them.
Fleshfixer
The Fleshfixer is a mulit-tool that allows the Medic to cut, seal, fuse, coagulate human or bionic flesh in any way. It’s the ultimate surgical tool.
Hypo
The Hypo is a modern injection device for insert Genejelly into the blood stream quickly.
Genejelly
A blue mush that can be programmed in an instant to destroy diseases in the patient. The genetic code of the patient provides a blue print that makes the jelly’s healing ability powerful. You can consume Genejelly, inject it or rub it into the skin. Genejelly can also be used as a powerful pain reliever. Best of all is that Genejelly can be made using any Bioreorganiser.
Shakespeare Med Kit
Cost: 300
Encumbrance: 1
+10% to any Medical Skill checks
Moss Med Kit
Cost: 2000
Encumbrance: 2
+10% to any Medical Skill rolls
Can heal 50% of the hit points of a characer (once per character per 40 hours)
Beamer Technology
Beaming is the act of moving something between two points without moving through normal space. Beaming turns the item into its energy pattern equivalent and fires it down a beam of energy to the new location. The beam can pass through solid objects.
Beamer technology is expensive and uses a huge amount of energy. It is not common place, used mostly by high tech expeditionaries and corporations. The general public rarely see any beamer technology but highly paid expeditionary teams use it for ammunition and equipment.
Jamming and Reliability
Beaming is not a reliable technology because the further the beam stretches the more likely it can be corrupted. As the beam reaches its limit, cosmic radiation interferes with the energy pattern of the beam, with catastrophic affects on the item. People are rarely beamed across open space, the Imperium use beaming in emergencies and also beam people down flux cable wires for moving people quickly through large military spacecraft. The Imperium use Droid-safe beaming.
Beamer equipment can be jammed easily (and will be by Droids by default) but jamming can be localised. Jamming beamers will also jam Prospace Communications, so it is easy to tell if the local area is being jammed. For example, if pirates blockade a planet, then jamming will occur in orbit only, beaming on the surface will still work.
10 on a D10 for failure
When using a civilian beamer system, roll a D10 and on a 10, the system fails and if anything arrives at all, it will be a grey sludge.
Rampart Beamer Systems
Rampart are a technology company that specialises in beamer technology. Each gadget can be a source, a destination or both. A source supplies ammunition and equipment while a destination acts as the end point. For example, the Spacecraft beamer spike is a source, the magazine is a destination and the case  is both source and destination. You do not need to beam to a destination, you can beam to anywhere.
Beamer spike
Fitted to a space craft, the beamer spike can beam any inorganic object from within the spacecraft to anywhere within 500km (covers any orbit to surface). It can be mounted anywhere that has access a spacecraft-level of generator.
Cost: 100 000
Rarity: 55%
Range: 500km
Type: Source
Beamer Case Pod
A beamer case looks like a normal suitcase but acts as source for beaming ammo and other small objects. To beam ammo, it will only beam to a beamer magazine. To beam other small objects, it uses a Gaiacard as a way of locking to a target. The beamer case will normally be left in the back seat of a car or in an apartment rather than carried around.
The case pod is also a destination and can be set to automatically top up from a Beamer spike mounted on a spacecraft.
Cost: 25 000
Rarity: 50%
Range: 100km
Type: Source and Destination
Capacity: 800 x 2.2 or 600 x 5.5 or 500 x 7.4 or 1000 energy
Range: 10km from pod to magazine
Encumbrance: 5
Beamer Magazine
The beamer magazine clips into any firearm and feeds the weapon with ammunition at the rate of fire. The magazine operates like a normal magazine, if connection to the beamer source is lost then it can be used as a normal magazine. You only need one beamer magazine as it has a universal clip.
Cost: 10 000
Rarity: 60%
Type: Destination
Capacity: As per normal weapon.
Encumbrance: As per normal weapon.

Scavenger Setting
Junk isn’t junk to everyone. There is trillions of tonnes of junk waiting to be plucked for free and sold for profit. A Scavenger’s job is to find, repair and return for sale. In Gaia soap operas, the Scavengers (Scavs) are romanticised relic hunters, sifting through jewels and art from before The Droid War. In reality, they are treated as the lowest of the low when it comes to ship crews, Scavs spend their time in dangerous wrecks, hunting out cargo and objects of value. Within these floating shipwrecks could be any manner of dangers: traps, dangerous equipment or even a stranded Droid.
Wrecks and abandoned colonies, still inside Human Occupied Space, have plenty of treasures and dangers alike. A persistent search of space rarely travelled is the home of Scavs, a long way from any Orbitals or colonies that could give assistance. Even if you did use a Gaia beacon to call for help, it could be days before any ship could get to you.
This Setting is designed to introduce you to Icar in small steps.  Your Character will begin with very little except the promise of great fortune. As you progress, you will acquire better technology and even your own spacecraft - either to serve your own personal goals or seek further fortune.
What is here 
This is the players section for playing a team of Scavs. It will introduce you to the rest of the crew non-player Characters  (NPCs) that will be played by your GM, help you create a Character, tell you how salvage works and introduce you to the Anadar Cluster, which is where you will be treasure hunting.
Salvage Vessels
A Salvage Vessel is a spacecraft normally converted from a decommissioned spacecraft of some another role, such as freighter or executive transport. The vessel normally has the following Characteristics:
• Large. Carrying in bulk saves on charges incurred at Orbitals. Larger items tend to have a better credits per tonnage price.
• Inexpensive. Created from salvaged parts and normally evolved from what is available at low or no cost. This leads to a Salvage Vessel being...
• Slow. An Salvage Vessel takes many years to Salvage one small area of space, returning to base only to off load cargo and sell on.
• Ad hoc shape. Unlike the executive or large trade vessels, the Salvage Vessels tend to be unsymmetrical in shape. This adds to the lack of appeal they have.
• Poor Condition. Most of the systems on board that do not directly aid the operation of the craft (Bioreorganisers etc) are normally of poor quality. This makes the standard of living generally low. 
Crew Members
Salvage Vessels have a very strict crew structure. In an emergency, everyone needs to know who is in charge and what their role is. Also, a crew structure allows the crew to have the feeling that they are advancing. The number of crew members are kept to a minimum and most have two jobs. In general they are split into Salvage Team and Home Team. All crew members work equally when in search of salvage, but when they approach a wreck, the Salvage Team normally enter the vessel whereas the Home Team remain on the Salvage Vessel. Every person in the Salvage team has a speciality, but they all share some areas of Skills. Most of the Salvage Team have technical backgrounds. 
The Botchery Clipper
Your first job on a Scavenger Vessel will be on the Botchery Clipper. A converted long haul freighter, the Botchery Clipper appears to be a typical Scavenger Vessel. On closer inspection the patchwork of modifications and improvements hide a multitude of sins and hidden areas. To anyone without stars in their eyes, it looks perfectly camouflaged for its job: a pile of junk. To romantics, it is gushing with quaint charm.
The Captain
This is the person who takes responsibility for their crew. The Captain manages the accounts and makes the final decisions. The Captain provides motivation and drive, striking the balance between a happy, well working crew and profitable hard work. When attending some salvage, the Captain  rarely leaves the Salvage Vessel (Home Team).
Ms Madeline Stuo
The Captain of the Botchery Clipper is a tough woman of 62 years old (21st Century Earth time about 35 years old). Before buying the Clipper from another Salvage firm, she spent 15 years as a technician on the Drackis Orb, Remmar. A thin and harsh woman, she speaks very little and is going grey early. She insists on uniformity within the crew and thus wears a one piece environment suit just like everyone else. Captain Stuo has loose morals and can make some very quick and cold decisions. Too thin to be attractive and with long black hair invariably tied into a bun, she often appears older than she is. 
The Medic
Every commercial Vessel requires a medically trained person before any other crew members are employed. The Medic is the second most important person on the ship, with them, the ship may not operate (there is no law but generally accepted canon). The medic often has plenty to do on an Salvage Vessel, from dealing with injured crew members returning from a dangerous Salvage mission to making sure the Captain spends enough money on the medical bay equipment. The medic only leaves the Salvage Vessel  in dire circumstances (Home Team). 
Dr. Sorex
The Medic on the Botchery Clipper is an Automaton of Dorian design. Educated with some of the best medical programs available, there is not an illness he cannot cure. Unfortunately, he hates his owner, the Captain. Her loose  morals and lack of respect for the lives of living creatures goes against his very deepest soul. Having dealt with this kind of laissez faire attitude to life has made him bitter and cynical, giving him the worst ‘bedside manner’ imaginable. Although humanoid in feature and shape, the metal skin (which he says is a reminder of what he is) that covers him is poor testimony to his complexity of design.
The Chief Tech
The last part of the Home Team is the chief Tech. This person makes sure that the Salvage Vessel is not in danger and keeps the systems on board in fine working order. The Chief Tech is often made second in command and spends most of their time between engineering areas and the bridge. The Salvage Team normally report to the Chief Tech.
Iss Horn Barnarder
Known as ‘The Chief’, Iss Horn Barnarder, is one of the most experienced Scavs in the trade. At the over ripe age of 102, The Chief has been on Scavenger Vessels since he was 10, ‘retiring’ to the Home Team only 20 years ago. The Chief is very much like a father to the crew and treats them all with respect. Unfortunately, he is a ‘soft touch’ and although he could stand up against the often heartless will of the Captain, he always backs down. The Chief is human, bald and walks with a limp. 
The Chief has many stories and rarely attempts to tell the same one twice. He misses the excitement of being in the Salvage Team but understands that the team on the wreck need his support back on the ship.  
Scavenger Characters
The Player Characters play a Scavenger Team. This team is often ordered to go onto places which are dangerous and must scavenge items that can be sold on later. This must be done quickly. Every member of the team costs money to keep on board, so each member has to prove their worth with every trip. If a member of the team is not pulling their weight, then they are likely to be fired at the next port. It is rarely the case that a whole Scavenger team is lost while on Salvage. This is tragic and leads to the main ship returning to port to hire a new team. 
People join Scavenger Vessels for a huge variety of reasons, from the desire of adventure to escaping responsibilities. New teams are difficult to form from scratch, people are suspicious about an Salvage Vessels requiring an entirely new team.
Character creation should be performed using the process outlined in Character Creation Overview on page 2.
The New Botchery Team
I was bored. I saw an advert for a Scav Away Team. I knew that Scavenger Vessels are not as prestigious as freighters, but then a freighter is not nearly as exciting. And they require you to be qualified first! I needed experience to join a freighter crew and needed to join a freighter crew to get experience. Experience was not a problem on a Scav. They’ll take anyone with a heartbeat.
So I turned up and seemed to have what they were looking for skills-wise, there were some others there too. An old man talked to us, he told a story about how lonely and cold space is but how rich the rewards can be. Then the Captain, who was this old woman in a jumpsuit said a few words and that was it. We were to leave tomorrow. We’d not even been shown the ship! One of the other new recruits said that this was probably a good thing.  
Character concepts
If you can’t think of a Character concept straight away, then choose one of the concepts below and then build and twist it as you play. These are just examples, please feel free to invent or twist the ones that are here. They are designed to give you a jump start into the Character. After you have chosen concept, move onto getting a Skeleton.
All these concepts refer to a small space station called an Orbital. You do not have to start there. If you have a better idea, suggest it to your GM to see if it fits with the starting plan.
Idealised School Leaver
You’ve left School, you’re 18, you know your subjects well and now your ready for the gargantuan Galaxy. Your parents are hassling you into joining some technical division of the Orbital on which you live, but you want more excitement than just fixing people’s ablution cubicles. You’re proud, impulsive, enthusiastic and have a naive and inaccurate view of space travel. 
You’ve secretly read about Scavs, listened intently to stories and it sounds like the life for you. You want everyone to like you and be part of a family that fights through adversity. Fortune is less important, riches can come later. The small Orb you come from is just too hick, you want to see the stars and fly through nebulae!
Ex Convict
You made a few mistakes and you’ve done time on a Star Enforcer prison colony. You have no money and are sick of living in the Orbital’s sheltered accommodation for rehabilitation. The only jobs that are open to you are the ones no-one else wants. You have to get off this bloody Orbital but no trade vessel will take you. You need employment with someone who won’t ask questions - and won’t mind if they find out you’ve done time. You’re worldly wise, courageous (only the weak obey the law), humble and fearful of committing crime.
Waster
You’ve wasted you life away with avoiding work and having fun. You need to prove to yourself that you’re not worthless. You’re a kind person, but the Skills you have are not accredited and you can’t get a job. You’ve worked hundreds of dead end jobs that would be done by an Automaton on richer colonies. 
You didn’t stick at any of them. Being on a Scavenger Vessel sounds more interesting than serving fat businessmen their food and will give you an employment record. If you don’t like it after a few days, then you can just leave. You’re not really into the whole danger thing, just a steady pay packet and some respect.
Sociopath
You don’t like large numbers of people and you have a temper problem. You don’t like crowded areas. You don’t like authority too much. You will go with the crowd, only if the crowd are going your way. You want to fight for life a little, but the authorities won’t allow you to express yourself. You’ve been told to leave the orbital. You know all the conspiracies, you tap into all the main information sources and you find it difficult to trust people. The Scav is the best place to be, no conspiracies, no trouble, otherwise you’re dead. Perfect.
Failed Trader
You lost your ship. You had it all, a crew, respect and your own damn vessel. Now you’ve lost it all. You just didn’t know when to be humble and listen to others, your selfish and foolhardy manner has meant the end of your career. And now, you’re reduced to this: a bloody Scav, the lowest of the low. You were great and you will be great again, if only the bitterness would go.
Dreamer
Where science and art met, you lived. Right on the edge of it all. The money dried up. You don’t really understand why, it just went. You’re virtuous and honest to the point of self destruction, but without art, your fiery temper has nothing to vent itself on. You need a job but your qualifications are not enough for a trade vessel, so the Scav sounds like the best place. They’re all oddballs, they’ll appreciate you. 
Mid-life Crisis
You’ve spent your life playing it straight, working for Corporations making pointless rubbish for a virtual world. You’re 60 years old and you’ve spent them all playing it safe, taking no risks. You’re fit and healthy and have lead a good life. Now you want to have the excitement you have been missing. You’re not going to like the step down in living standards that the Scavenger Vessel is going to offer but it will be worth it for the adventure! Now you will know what it is like to really live.
Skeletons
You have chosen your Character concept. This is what makes your Character tick. Now this needs to be wrapped around a skeleton. Many of the skeletons look very similar. This is because what makes a Scav Character unique is the Character concept. You will notice that each skeleton has a primary and secondary role. This only suggests the sort of Skills they have and what their function is, do not think this is a restriction to how you can play your Character. Normally, you get one of each type in a crew. 
The detail of each skeleton is given at the end of the Scavenger Setting, just before the GM guide.
Security
Your main job is ensuring the safety of the rest of the Scavs. Your technical knowledge is used to make sure the wreck you are salvaging is safe to work on. You are the one with the gun.
Weapon Skills and general tech.
Rayengine Technician
You are the Hacker, computer freak. Quite often, you are needed to open airlocks using Gaia or source information from the wreck’s computer (such as logs or cargo manifests). Before a mission, you will research Gaia to see if any information from before the Droid War is useful.
Gaia/Hacking Skills.
Colony Technician
When it comes to the technology behind colonies, you are the best. If it is on or under the ground, you know what to get and from where. You can open up the systems in minutes. You also know about explosives, getting in and out is important!
Colony technology Skills and explosives.
Zero G Technician
If its in space, you know about it. You are the main drive on most scavenger operations because you know the most about floating wrecks. Operating without gravity comes second nature to you.
Spacecraft and Orbital Know Skills.
Human Resources
Often, the crew of the wreck are not quite dead enough. At this point they need to be sorted out. Also, you know what gets good prices and what the market wants. You are the dealer. The Human resources member also have the task of finding new crew members when the Captain is busy.
Street and Trading Skills and Empathy / Persuasion.
Special Skills
The following Skills are possessed by all Scav Team members. They do not appear elsewhere and count as specialist Skills used only by Scav Team members. As the Scav Team members are usually new to the job, they begin at starting levels. If a Character is to have experience in the field, then they are to begin with (5 x Wit)+10 percentage.
Zero G Operations
Shift Shift Wit. Instructor.
Operating in Zero G is not easy for most, it can be disorientating and difficult.  Zero G can also be used in favour of the worker, taking the strain and weight of tools. When entering Zero G conditions (each time), this Skill must be rolled. If pass, then no further effects. If fail then the user will find every task at Hard modifier.
Mechasys Extraction
Shift Wit Wit. Self Taught.
Requires: Possession of any ‘Systems’ Skill.
When removing parts from a wreck, it must be done quickly and without damaging the item. This Skill is to be used when an item is not easily removed. First, the appropriate Skill is used and if this passes (at normal difficulty) then Extraction is used to remove it without damage. A pass will mean that the unit may be sold as new, otherwise a loss of money will occur.
Scavenger Operations
Scavenger Operations are dangerous but the dangers can be lessened by using a standard operating procedure. A series of guidelines that help stop problems before they develop and avoid putting the whole crew into danger. The steps below assume that the salvage is chanced upon. If the crew is tipped off about the location of a worthwhile wreck, then the first step is normally missed.
The timings ‘out’ from the salvage are the number of hours until the team set foot on the salvage.
1. Long Range Detection
While Light Jumping through space, a non-astronomical object can be detected from afar (1 square on the cluster map either side of the route). Very little information can be gathered during Light Jump so the journey may be changed to take a jump nearer to the object. The scavenger Away Team may not be notified that the route is changing. This is normally between 10 and 12 hours out.
2. Approach
The Away Team are put on standby and begin equipping. At this stage there is no idea whether the wreck will produce anything of any value or not, although the Salvage Vessel crew are committing themselves to taking a closer look. This is 8 hours out.
3. Medium Range Scan
The Salvage Vessel will not Light Jump close to the object, it is dangerous to do so: sometimes space anomalies appear as objects on long range sensors. 
The Salvage Vessel leaves Light Jump and performs a medium range scan at about 6 hours out. From this scan, quite a lot of information can be gauged, such as type of wreck or colony and estimates of value are made. The Captain will decide whether to continue to the wreck or to move on based on the information presented and the expertise of the crew. A meeting is normally held post-scan for this reason.
If the crew has a Gaia technician, they will research Gaia for any information on the wreck. The Protected Junk List is checked to see if the wreck is on it (see Salvage Law).
4. Circuit of Wreck
A close range (5000km, further if it is a planet, moon or Orb) and 2 hours out, an information gathering circuit of the wreck is performed. By the end of the circuit, the Scavenger Team must be completely ready to begin. This final circuit will provide tactical and safety information for the Scavenger team. Life support and structural information is also gathered.
5. Salvage Team Briefing
1 hour before the operation the team are briefed by the Chief and the Scavenger Team leader. The particulars and jobs are set out for the team.
6. Salvage Mission
Zero hour, the team arrive on the salvage for their mission. The mission can take between 1 hour and 10 days depending on the size of the wreck or colony. The Scavenger Team work 30 hours and then rest for 10. If the Salvage Vessel is more than an hour away, rest periods are taken on the salvage, be it a colony or wreck.
7. Salvage Team Post Briefing
The Away Team return to the Salvage Vessel once either all of the salvage is collected or there is no more room on the Salvage Vessel. An inventory of all the equipment is taken and the team analyse how they can work better in future.
8. Depart
Any objects removed from the wreck are cleaned, catalogued and stored ready for sale. The Salvage Vessel either returns to base for sale and repairs or continues the search for more wrecks.  
Salvage Law
What constitutes Salvage? Is there still an owner? Salvage law was originally instated by the Imperium in 96002 and used technology to solve the question of ownership. Salvage is defined as:
Any item which has been discarded by the owner or where the owner is deceased and no claim has been made on the item. Upon locating Salvage, Star Civilisation must be contacted to register salvage rights. 
Star Civilisation handles all the claims over Gaia. Anything outside the Light Jump Net (and the umbrella of Gaia) is not covered by Imperial Law. Many objects are found and registered each day on the Protected Junk List including those that are registered by crews who must leave a craft due to systems failure. The abandoned craft will remain registered on the Protected Junk List for 50 years, after which it is available to anyone who wishes to salvage it. Of course, some Salvage Vessels will return a wreck to a Star Dock - for a fee. Colonies cannot be listed on the Protected Junk List, so salvage cannot be protected by the Imperium. If a Colony is abandoned and there is no clear owner, it’s a free-for-all.
Although this is the law, it is often the case that they are bent and broken. Many of the Salvage Vessels operate in areas where the Star Enforcer Fleet do not have a great presence. Whether this is piracy or not is down to your point of view.
Piracy
Piracy is any criminal act where a spacecraft is used for arrival and departure. Just about any crime involving Salvage Vessels and wrecks are considered piracy. Heavily armed freighters lie in wait for freighters laden with goods, ready for stripping. Pirates are well organised and choose their targets carefully.
Profit and Loss
Everyone on an Salvage Vessel needs to pay their way. If a crew member from either Home or Scavenger Teams are not pulling their weight then the Captain will fire them. Salvage Vessels do not make enough profit to accommodate wasters. Every Salvage Vessel has a daily running cost, including crew pay, repairs and food. When visiting an Orbital (which charges docking fees) the amount of salvage sold must cover the expenses for the next trip out. Therefore, a balance must be achieved between searching for and actually stripping a wreck. 
The Salvage Vessel has a maximum tonnage it can carry. Every item has a price/tonne. Bigger items tend to have a high price/tonne. Rare or high tech items are sold individually - normally bartered based on a percentage of list price (use the price list in the Appendix as a guide). Antiques are more difficult to value as an interested buyer must be found. All pieces must be evaluated and the Salvage Vessel only ever returns when it nears its tonnage capacity. 
Scavenger Equipment
All Salvage Vessels have their equipment customised. Every wreck that is encountered has a treasure trove of items that can either be sold or installed. This leads to a some inventive uses of spare parts and installation of nonessential parts, purely because they became available and are not worth selling. Although there is a large amount variation between the equipment and systems on different Salvage Vessels, there are some items which appear just about everywhere. They are outlined here (equipment sheets can be found in the Equipment Index). 
Orbihaul Shuttle
Designed by Forester, this Heavy Grav vehicle is used by all Salvage Vessels for travel to and from wrecks, carrying back any stripped items and for travel to colonies. It is extremely robust, quick and easy to repair and designed to be spacious. The Orbihaul suffers from being extremely slow and poor handling. These are not considerations for Scavenger crews who require space and reliability.
Shakespeare Tech Kit
This tech kits has everything a Scavenger Technician requires in a handy body harness. See Shakespeare Universal Tech Kit on page 94.
Moss Environment Suit
An unarmoured space suit which survives extremely hazardous environments. The Environment Suit is a lightweight boiler suit in the blue and grey colours of the Botchery Clipper. For more information see Moss EV Suit on page 91.
Anadar Cluster
Situated in the very heart of Remmar’s Darkspace, Anadar is an unruly frontier Cluster. Due to a thin Imperial presence, Darkspace is a dangerous place to scrape out an existence.
Anadar has only a handful of colonies which cling tentatively to their own existence. As the Imperium’s influence is weak, there is great opportunity in Darkspace for a new Imperial Peer. Two powerful industrial families have risen to the fore: House Granger and House Tacquent. These two families battle economically for control of Anadar by helping fledgeling colonies grow, using fleets of freighters to supply colonies and acting as much like an Imperial Lord without having the power or recognition.
Freighters regularly make the Darkspace crossing from Hub to Rim sides of the Sector. There is too much volume for the Star Enforcers to cover, so piracy is rife. 
Anadar was not always a frontier system. Before the Droids invaded it was a haven for wealthy patrons of the arts and the artists they funded. Now, the sparseness of colonies make it an ideal den for pirates and criminals.  
Corisk
The System of Corisk is a shining light in all of the Darkspace clusters. The first to be re-colonised after the Droids were swept away, Corisk is unique in that it has had enormous levels of Imperial resources used upon it. The Imperial presence here is obvious too: shining new Mex Cities, a high density of farming on its two inhabitable worlds, a refurbished Orb and profitable mining wherever possible.
Florence and Penelope
Two of Corisk’s fifteen worlds are inhabitable.  They are called Florence and Penelope and orbit directly opposite each other. Florence is the largest planet and the climate is temperate, controlled by a complex interaction of moon gravitational pulls and a brand new atmosphere generation plant. Florence has seven moons, all of which have thriving mining colonies.
Penelope is moonless and has a wide range of climates from iced poles to a desert equator. In orbit around Penelope is the Boudika Orb, a clean and well tendered Orb whose ordered inside surface looks like a botanical garden. A healthy rivalry exists between Florence, Penelope and the Boudika Orb. Corisk is as close to a typical Imperial system as you will find in Remmar.
Friction with Tacquent
The Corisk System does have its problems. The Imperium have abandoned attempts to repair the spacecraft dock in Boudika Orb - which would allow repairs to spacecraft. Crewing the spacecraft dock became impossible with Tacquent’s aggressive employing of technical staff on his Colony of Essofin. As such, Essofin remains the only place where spacecraft can have repairs. The same is true for technology manufacturing, which Essofin has cornered all of the experts.
Essofin
Essofin is the home of the self-styled Lord E. Tacquent and his dynasty. Acquentia, a single inhabitable world of tropical climate is the focus of this seven planet system. Essofin is run entirely by the Tacquent dynasty. All the major corporations in Essofin are owned by Tacquent family members. 
Essofin is prosperous, built upon a technological manufacturing empire. The Tacquent industrial cartel allows the economy to remain stable and huge taxes to levied. Lord Tacquent claims that the taxes are ploughed back into Essofin but as strict numbers are not published, it is difficult to tell whether this is the case.
Acquentia has several moons (one of which, called Prometheus, is also inhabitable) and many Orbitals.
Falling out of favour with the Tacquent family is bad for business as taxes are levied against companies not owned by a Tacquent family member.
Part of Essofin’s success is its excellent law and order record. Essofin has a civilian police force called The Metropol who tirelessly work to keep criminal elements off Essofin. By entering the system of Essofin, you agree to sign up to an augmented set of Imperial law and also sign away some of your rights too. The Imperium is not happy with this arrangement but does not have the resources to deal with it.
Obyrworld
Obyrworld is a single planet in the Amo system. The other planets of the Amo system were destroyed in one of the most bitter defences of The Droid War. The system is littered with planetary debris in the form of asteroid belts, leaving only Obyrworld intact.
Obyrworld is circled by a set of rings, the remains of three Orbs, which were destroyed by colonists trying to stem the tide of Droids. The rings consist of technological fragments of these artificial moons, rich in both danger and reward. The Imperium classifies Obyrworld’s rings as simple “You’re on your own”. The number of objects is too great and the movement too chaotic to simply scan for valuable goods, the only way to find salvage is to get in amongst the debris, much of it the size of large cities.
The planet surface has an unpredictable climate. A single remaining atmosphere generation plant fights to keep the air breathable and surface temperate. Within a week, the weather can change from desert conditions to tundra and then tropical forest. Only the toughest plant life can survive such epic changes.
The lethal rings of Obyrworld entice hundreds of green Scavenger crews but the danger is not just Newtonian; pirates are known to operate around Obyrworld. Small Orbihauls sift through the remains of the Orbs, selling their wares back on the planet surface and the pirates pick them off with alarming regularity.
Dess-Kay-Dar
A system rich in both minerals and chaos. There is a running joke held by people who do not live there that Dess-Kay-Dar has a ‘Government for every season’. Dess-Kay-Dar has two colonies: Fexor is the prime colony, an inhabitable fourth planet, who’s landmass is sparse amongst massive seas of water; Parachania is the fifth in the system, a rocky planet whose valuable mineral resources has lead to a sprawling sub-surface colony that can house hundreds of millions.
To list the factions fighting for control on Dess-Kay-Dar would be impossible. Shifting politics, allegiances and alliances make for a very volatile situation. Couple that with inter-colony rivalry, an almost inexhaustible supply of hired mercenaries and business unchecked by the Imperium and you have a vibrant and unruly backdrop.
There is never an outright war in the system of Dess-Kay-Dar as that would scare off the trade vessels but tempers do flare and bring with them riots and quelling.
Kale
Loved by its colonists, Kale is a system of only one colony and a thriving food industry. Founded on Humanist ideals of peace and love, Kale uses only machines that are absolutely necessary for them to live and communicate with the outside world.
The colony is on paradise planet of Harramunda, the 6th planet of the system. At the time of The Droid War, Kale only had a few thousand inhabitants - all of which evacuated safely, leaving the world untouched. The Droids passed by the near-empty planet to concentrate on areas where there were higher densities of humans.
Automatons are banned on Harramunda. Any spacecraft based Automatons (such as spacecraft avatars) must remain on board.
Pri-Sot
Pri-Sot is a system somewhere between myth and reality. Referred to in pre-Droid war media as a utopian paradise for artisans and their patrons, it is one of the reasons Anadar was ever famous. What makes Pri-Sot a myth is that its location was only ever shared by word of mouth and has since past into obscurity. There are Scavenger Vessels dedicated to finding Pri-Sot, although the crews are treated with some considerable contempt.
Rhot Orb
Rhot Orb holds a planetary orbit in the system of Rhot and is remarkable because it was largely untouched by the sweeping obliteration of the Droid army. The Orb’s automated processes have continued to function since The Droid War and the plant life inside has long since taken over.
Rhot Orb has always been a favourite location for tales of hidden treasure. The most whispered story is of a pirate fleet who took refuge there when the Droids came. When they realised that the Orb was to be left untouched by the Droids, the pirate fleet took the Orb over and used it as a base of operations and a place to hide valuables they stole. After a year of stockpiling treasure there, the pirate fleet met the Droids head on and was destroyed.
Power and Influence
Like any Cluster, Anadar has its fair share of local celebrities and companies. This is not an exhaustive list but gives those that you would have heard of.
Lord E. Tacquent
At 54, this industrialist and trader is a growing influence in Anadar. Based on Essofin, the self-proclaimed Lord Tacquent is a harsh man who runs a tight police state where little crime exists. Tacquent has publicly denied any aspirations for Imperial Peerage nor does he want any Imperial presence on his system. Any publications about Tacquent are carefully controlled, so little information on Gaia is available. It is undeniable that Essofin is the most profitable system in Anadar.
Tacquent heads a family that acts like a dynasty. The family is huge and controls all of the main industries on Essofin. 
The Fleet of House Granger
The Fleet of House Granger is the name given to a nomadic fleet of spacecraft that roam Anadar. The fleet is huge and consists of gargantuan ancient spacecraft. The Grangers have a calm and respectful outlook and as such those that work and live in the fleet are happy to do so. The fleet is self-sustaining and stops at systems to off load food and manufactured technology while picking up raw materials. It is best to think of the fleet as a roaming planet. They are not a trade group as such because they do not work routes back and forth between planets.
The Granger family tries to keep out of the spot light, although it is their wealth (and investments held in Sayshell Sector) that allows the fleet to ride through economically hard times. They lend their name to the fleet but are not a controlling influence. The fleet is managed in a democratic way and it is believed that a member of their council works for Star Civilisation. The fleet of Granger are banned from Essofin.  
The Pinnacle Trade Group
The Pinnacle Trade group is an umbrella corporation for lots of trade vessels throughout Anadar. It is where everyone wants to work. Good pay, working conditions, leave, uniforms and perks. Planet leave is always in places that are interesting and the hours tend to be short as the crew runs in many shifts. Often the Pinnacle trade group spacecraft fit cabins and improve their facilities, making the vehicles very comfortable for passengers and crew alike. 
The pay on these ships is normally so high that any other job would require a massive pay cut and thus the crew-turnover is small. This in turn creates a family atmosphere. Most of the spacecraft are freighters but there are the odd one or two Scavenger Vessels.
The Undertow
The Undertow is a Scavenger Vessel that is similar to the Botchery Clipper in every way. As such you would have found out that they are the bitter rivals of the Botchery Clipper crew.
Epilogue
You now have all the information required to play the Scavenger Setting. Unlike most settings, the Scavenger setting requires more guile and less guns. This leads to more roleplaying and clumsy fist fights.
Also, as a Scav team, you might feel like you are being railroaded along a linear path for the first few sessions. This is normal in any setting and is set this way so that you can get to grips with the system and setting long before having to make decisions for yourselves. The missions will give you momentum and help you learn the system, the setting itself is of sandbox nature and choice will be there if you want it.
In the Scav setting, death is common. The only armour you have is your Environment Suit. The group begins with one gun and none of you are really combat ready. As long as you hold back on the gun-ho attitude then you can keep making it through.
Don’t be afraid of exploring the Botchery Clipper or asking the Doctor and Chief questions, they are likely to answers truthfully as they dare. There are some things that are counted as the Captain’s personal business, but then, if you’re the sort of person to poke around, then why not ask? She can only say no.
Scavenger Setting Skeletons
Over the next few pages, are a few example Skeletons to choose from. If you have an idea for a character that doesn’t quite fit with a Skeleton then the GM may let you make a new Skeleton. The GM has some notes in the GM section on how to build new ones.
Remember that a Skeleton does not determine all you can do in the crew - only what you are best at. As your Character grows, you will buy more skills and either carve a niche or broaden your Character’s abilities.
Scav Security

The Scav Security is there for the safety of the group and is a good choice for the group leader. They are the tough fighter in the group and are the only one that understand how to fire weapons and is fight hand to hand. The Scav Security is responsible for the safety of the team, if any die during a mission then the Security will be held responsible.
Security also extends to operating on board the Scavenger Vessel. It is important that no harm comes to the spacecraft. During space combat, Security will always be manning the guns, unless they are boarded!
Suggested Attributes
Battle minimum of 3.
Meat minimum of 2.
Starting Skills
Skills have default starting levels unless otherwise stated.
Law 
History 
Biology 
Physics
Gaia Know 
Medicine
Grav Pilot
Zero-G Operations 
Shooting
Street Wise
Street Fighting
Starting Equipment
Arms 5 Machine Gun. 2 magazines of 5.5 ammo (no grenades). Nelson Pistol. 2 magazines of 2.2 ammo. 2 Changes of clothing. Moss EV Suit. Personal Effects.
Human Resources 

Although a general technician during the mission, the Human Resources team member provides common sense and non-technical points of view. This is very useful in a mission because Tech types will become engrossed in the technical problem, whereas Human Resources is there to see the bigger picture. Wrecks are often left in a state that tells a human story - part tragedy but often with a tale of hidden riches.
Human Resources will also be able to make snap appraisals on the worth of nontechnical items such as people’s personal effects or artwork. 
Suggested Attributes
Soul minimum of 7.
Starting Skills
Skills have default starting levels unless otherwise stated.
Law 
History 
Biology 
Physics 
Grav Pilot
Zero-G Operations
Law
Street Wise
Street Trading
Street Deal
Empathy
Persuade
Style
Counsel
Starting Equipment
Gaiacard with Isis. 2 Changes of clothing. Moss Environment Suit. Personal Effects.  

Scav Engineer 
 
The stereotypical Technician lives in their environment suit and works every shift when they’re not sleeping. There is always something to fix on the Botchery Clipper and on missions you’ll be needed to force open airlocks; hack into data stores and Gaia cards to find out what happened to the crew; stop the spacecraft from burning up in orbit and then fix the Orbihaul, which took a nasty knock on its way in.
Suggested Attributes
Wit minimum of 7.
Soul minimum of 5.
Starting Skills
Skills have default starting levels unless otherwise stated.
Law 
History 
Biology 
Physics 
Zero-G Operations
Grav Pilot
Micro Engineering
Astromechanics
Macro Engineering
Artificial Intelligence
Hacking
Starting Equipment
Shakespear Tech kit, Gaiacard. 2 Changes of clothing. Moss Environment Suit. Personal Effects.

Gamesmaster Guide
Welcome Gamesmaster (GM), this section will help you run Icar. Avoid sharing information from this Section with the players (unless their Characters discover it). This guide is written in an authoritarian style, not to impose laws but to keep it brief and make it easier to use as reference. Anything in this guide or the rules is open to interpretation and bending to meet the needs of your group is encouraged. 
The GM Section is split into the following sections:
Understand This Before You Play describes some home truths about the Icar system, what to expect.
System Mechanics gives more examples of play and how to best apply the rules.
Characters explains Skill use and how much RP to give out.
Background expands upon the background given in the main section with details that the players do not need to know (or will find out during play).
Running an Icar Sandbox explains how to run an Icar campaign the way Rob Lang does.
Scavenger Setting Gamesmaster Notes gives extra information for the Scavenger Setting and applies the tools given in this section.
Understand this before you play
Icar is designed for a sandbox Campaign play. A campaign is a series of adventures played back to back with the same player Characters and recurring NPCs. A sandbox is where the players get to choose what they do next.
Ideally, 5 players (which will be assumed from here on).
The combat system is lethal.
Don’t try and use all the mechanics in the first session.
Mechanics
Combat
The aim of the combat system is to provide fast and loose scenes while still having to make tactical choices. It is not recommended that you use a battle map with miniatures. This is because combat will happen in four dimensions: a player character wrestling a suspect to the floor, a firefight with the guards, drive by fire support and Hacking doors closed over Gaia. It’s much easier to represent that on a scribbled map with a grid to help represent scale. Rely upon description in scene setting rather than where miniatures are places on a grid.
The Importance of Scene Setting
All of the combat systems in Icar require you to set the scene before combat begins. By setting the scene well, you will find that the players will get involved in describing the combat, rather than simply rolling dice and reporting damage.
Poor Scene Setting Example. The bad guy is an armed Borg. Byrnie, you are here. The door is here. There is a table in the middle of the room.
There is little here for the players to latch onto except the target. By adding some extra detail, you can help the players make much more descriptive actions.
Better scene setting example: The bad guy is a Borg, he is carrying a huge gun in his right hand. Byrnie, you are here by the door control panel. There is a office table here, the Mesh exits are here and here. There is a cracked window behind the Borg. The ceiling is 3m high.
By adding a little more description, you are prompting the player to think about the decision. There is a little guiding here, hinting that the player might want to leave. Too much explanation ‘fluff’ such as the colour of the walls will take too long. If the player asks questions to further define the area, that is fine but answer quickly and press for a decision.
Close Combat
Close Combat is a descriptive affair. Characters punch, kick, head butt, dodge and more. It is a very visual form of combat. If the player wishes to make use of the environment in close combat, that is fine too.
Example: The PC has the enemy in a hold and they are standing next to a wall. The enemy has not managed to break free. The player chooses to use a punch-punch-punch combo next turn but would like to slam the enemy into the wall. In a real fight, that might be tricky but it does show that the player is taking the situation into account so ask for a Street Fighting roll and the wall becomes a blunt weapon.
Descriptive words
When describing the blows taken and given in close combat, it can help to add some adjectives. Head butts can crack, kicks might thud and punches can slap. Below is a micro-thesaurus of words you might use. Encourage your players to describe the punches. 
If the player uses the environment  to build flavour into the combo, then reward them by doing extra Stun.
Cheat Sheets
In the Appendix are quick reference “cheat sheets”. They duplicate the salient points of the rules. Nothing secret is printed on the cheat sheets, so you may share them with the players.
Fire Fighting
Weapons in Icar are lethal but medicine and armour are powerful. If you put unarmoured, unarmed Characters up against just about anyone with a pistol, they are going to have pieces shot off. Always have a medic on hand because the medic’s Skills and equipment are vital. If the players shun the idea of playing a medic (which is reasonable), then add one in as an NPC or run a less-lethal campaign. An Automaton is a good choice for a medic because Automatons cannot hurt people and are comparatively strong and easy to repair.
To simplify the bad guys rolling to hit, assume that every bad guy has a Skill of 60. Roll your hits on a D100 still but 60 is the value you must get under.
To easily work out how much an NPC is dealing in damage, assume that they are firing the weapon with the full number of rounds per turn. If the weapon’s Blast Factor (BF) is higher than the player Character’s Armour Rating (AR) then the Character takes all of it. If the BF is less than the AR, they take a 10th. Just knock off a zero from the end of the damage.
Characters
Using Skills
When using a Skill for Character knowledge, only one Character may roll per question asked of the GM. For example, if a Character asks “Who is the council chairman on this colony?” and fails their roll, no other player may roll dice for this question. If they want to ask a different, connected question they may.
Handing out Roleplaying Points
The intended length of a campaign should govern the amount of Roleplaying Points you hand out. For a short game, you hand out more each session to allow the Characters to grow at a quicker rate. For longer campaigns, you give less to avoid the Characters becoming very powerful early on.
Players play for reward. Whatever you hand out Roleplaying Points for, that is what they will play to. If you hand out Roleplaying Points for killing things or having grand experiences, then they will do more of that. In Icar, it is recommended that you hand out RP for:
Believably roleplaying a consistent Character
Having good ideas
Putting effort into the campaign
You do not hand out RP for:
Completing jobs
Successfully completing tasks
Killing
How much RP to hand out
For a 3 hour session, 50 session campaign, I give out RP using the following scale. Each entry of the scale assumes the last entry is met - for example, for 2 RP, the player needs to have turned up to the session as well as playing a believable Character.
1 RP: Player turned up to the session.
2 RP: Player joined in when prompted.
3 RP: Player played a believable Character and joined in often without prompting.
4 RP: Player had good ideas and was convincing in Character.
5 RP: Player put maximum amount of effort, powered the team forward and roleplayed their Character in such a way that it was if the Character was sitting there.
Other things I reward:
+1 RP: If the group take command of their own destiny and rather than being fed information, go and find it themselves.
+1-3 RP: Downtime. Between sessions, encourage the players to discuss the events of the session and do any planning. Email, forums, Google+, Facebook or Twitter are all good ways of organising this. The aim is to reduce the amount of time spent shopping, planning, scheming and not roleplaying when at the table. If the downtime enriches the game, adds back story or allows more play to be done at the table, I award RP for it.
+1-3 RP: Recap. When recapping the last session (see Organising your Game Session on page 114), an entertaining recap performed from the point of view of the Character will gain 3 RP. A simple list of events will get 1 RP.
Putting a Team Together
For low powered Characters, it is imperative that the team has a broad range of Skills. This ensures that the team won’t get stuck because they are missing a vital Skill. Also, tightly defined Skill packages mean that every Character has a specific job in the team. That makes it easier for you to ensure that a session requires all the Skills of the team.
As Characters develop, there will be cross-over in Skill sets but by that time, each Character will be filling a social role (peace maker, trouble maker, clown etc) as well as their Skill role. 
Every Character should have the following Skills - if they do not, have a good reason for it:
Gaia Know, Streetwise, Pilot Grav
A typical team would consists of:
1 x Combat monster - Street Fighting, Light Firing, Heavy Firing perhaps Rail Fighting.
1 x Space Tech Geek - Spacecraft Know/Systems/Design, Pilot Cruiser, Automaton Know/Systems
1 x Not-Space Geek - Vehicle Know/Systems/Design, Weapon Know/Systems/Design, Pilot Heavy Grav
1 x Gaia Hacker - Gaia Know/Systems/Hacking
1 x Verbal Character - Persuade, Intimidate, Language, Street Trading
Background
Icar has a lot of background and like the world you’re living in now, you don’t need all of it at once. For new Gamesmasters, jump straight to the Scavenger Setting and work from that, you can then pick and choose from the extra information here when you run low on ideas from the Scavenger Setting.
Using the Droids
Unless you run a military campaign where they are the focus, Droids are not meant to be a core part of an Icar campaign. Instead, they provide background flavour and richness to the setting. News reports list “Gains and Losses”, which are Clusters and systems that have been taken from or lost to the Droids, people gossip about recent footage and rumours spread of new Droid capabilities that the Star Fleet cannot deal with. They should be used rarely and with considerable fanfare.
The Droids perform three main tasks in Icar.
1. They provide a “bogeymen” that NPCs will have varying levels of fear of. Most are fascinated and terrified by them, some are complacent, arrogant or ignorant. Anyone who has had any contact with the Droids are likely to be in fear of them. The news reports will be from distant systems and the problem of the Droids will feel detached from day to day life. Parents may use Droids as impetus to get their children to sleep or eat healthily.
2. They create a soft border to better fix the area in which the Characters can go. Trips outside the three Human Occupied Sectors of Sayshell, Dorian and Remmar should be rare and is very dangerous. Droids are not a imagined propaganda device of the Imperium to keep everyone in line, they are very real and very lethal.
3. They provide a rare challenge. Characters with medium power weapons (Astrarippers, ChainSAWs or Energy Weapons) could stumble upon a damaged Droid on a wrecked spacecraft (see Scavenger Setting on page 97). For more powerful Characters, a fully operational Droid (or a pod of Droids landing on a planet the players favour) is more of a challenge. If you want to terrify the players into leaving a planet in a hurry, try a full on Droid invasion. Be careful not to invade a planet too close to Sayshell or you’ve broken the setting. A pod might get there but not a Droid Cruiser.
Droid Statistic Examples
If you desperate to use Droids in your campaign, here are some broad statistics for the two most common, the bipedal humanoid Mark 1 and the Mark 3. For weaponry, use the statistics for any of the Chain Guns (e.g. Astraripper 2E, Chainsaw 7, Korg 5) or energy weapons (e.g. Photoscythe). Any future supplements detailing Droid campaigns should supplant this section.
Simple Droid examples (use in rare cases only!)
Statistic	Mark 1	Mark 3
Armour Rating (AR)	50	60
Head	5000	8000
Left Arm	4000	6000
Torso	9000	15 000
Right Arm	4000	6000
Left Leg	5000	10 000
Right Leg	5000	10 000
Shields	6	14

Alien Races
Other worlds have managed to produce sentient animals, not too dissimilar to those on Earth (mammoths, fish, birds, etc). However, none of the animals have an intelligence beyond an Earth dog. There are no other races travelling between the stars. Aliens can be very cunning and lethal but they are animal in nature. Alien races can be used for ‘bug hunt’ purposes, like in the film Aliens.
Creating your own Cluster Maps
As a GM, you might decide to use your own Cluster and draw your own maps. The steps to create your own cluster are:
Print a blank Cluster Map
You will find it in the Appendix.
Choose a Sector
Begin by choosing a cluster on the Sector maps (Sayshell, Remmar and Dorian).
Clusters in Sayshell are tidy, clean, well organised, prone to highly organised crime, high tech.
Clusters in Dorian are industrial, functional and wealthy.
Clusters in Remmar are frontier worlds.
Alternatively, you could set up your Cluster as a fish-out-of-water, such as a rich and neat system in Remmar.
Mark nearest Hub/Rim/Spin lines
To help place your cluster on the Sector map, mark the nearest Hub/Rim or Spin lines (the horizontal and vertical grid lines on the Sector map) on the map. You should only need to mark one of each on.
Draw the outline of the cluster
Roughly draw the outline of the cluster on the graph.
Add systems in groups
For each colony you want in your cluster, place a circle in one of the grid squares. More interesting story arcs can be created if you try grouping systems together and them leaving space between them.
Creating your own Skeletons
A Skeleton is a package of training and equipment that defines the kind of role the Character has in the team. If you are creating your own Setting or need some more Skeletons to fit into a pre-made Icar setting then you might need to create your own Skeletons. There is no ‘right’ way to build a Skeleton, it depends on your setting. There are some general guidelines that can help you get started.
The guidelines assume that the Characters are going to start off as young, simple characters. If you are running a campaign that jumps in with Characters that have been around longer, then see the Section ‘Experienced Characters’.
Anatomy of a Skeleton
A Skeleton consists of:
Description. A general overview of the role the Skeleton represents. 
Suggested Attributes. Most Skeletons will have Attributes that best suit it. For example, a medic should have a high Wit.
Skills. Give you Skeletons enough skills to be useful but not too many or there isn’t room for the Character to grow.
Equipment. Weapons, technology, bionics and armour.
Choosing Core Skills
A Skeleton should have a purpose that is not already covered by an existing Skeleton. Core Skills are those Skills that most Characters should have (and there be a good reason why if not). Here are a few examples:
Did they go to a Star Civilisation School?
Most children do. School is a matter of attending classes over Gaia and having irregular tutorials. If you can get to a Gaia terminal, you can go to school. If they come out School, they will know the following:
Law 
History 
Biology 
Physical 
Chemical 
Gaia Know
Have they been an adult living a normal life in Human Occupied Space?
Adults living under the Imperium will have picked up some basic skills. Note that this is not the case for Scavenger Setting characters.
Pilot Grav
Streetwise
Have they lived on a spacecraft for a long time?
Living on a spacecraft for a long time means that you will have a thorough grounding in how they work.
Zero-G Operations (from Scav Setting)
Spacecraft Know
Choosing Vocational Skills
Vocational Skills are the Skills that make this Character individually useful in the Team. To decide on which vocational Skills to give the Skeleton, look through each of the Skills and ask yourself the question: “Do they need this for their job?”. For Technical roles, this is quite easy as the type of Technical character (Spacecraft Tech or Vehicle Tech) will have its own Skill branch. For Technical Characters, give all the Skills in Branch.
Starting Skill Values
The starting values for Skills should be considered in three groups: Schooled, Vocation and Extras. As the Character is fresh to the game, the starting values do not have to obey the rules for buying new Skills. For example, do not worry that a medical character has 70% in their Surgery Skill but only 50% in their Medical Basic Skill.
Schooled Skills
These are skills that the Character will have learned at school  (See Did they go to a Star Civilisation School?) but they are unlikely to be highly skilled in them. In this case, the skills take their starting values from the Skill list in the Appendix.
Vocational
A Character’s specialism is what makes them uniquely useful in the team. The starting values depend on the Attributes associated with the Skill and their Epoch. For each Skill, follow these steps:
Pick one Attribute you feel represents the Skill.
For Epoch 1 Skills, you’re aiming for a 40-60% range, so 5 x (Chosen Attribute) + 2D10.
For Epoch 2 Skills, you’re aiming for a 30-50% range, so 3 x (Chosen Attribute) + D10
For Epoch 3 (and higher), use the Starting Value of the Skills.
Extra Skills
These are Skill you feel the Skeleton has to make it more useful. For example, the Scavenger Setting Human Resources Skeleton has Empathy and Persuade skills. Although these are not required to do the job, they make the non-combat Character that more useful. 
Extras should start at 3 x (Chosen Attribute) + D10.
Equipment, Bionics and Armour
Only the bare minimum equipment should be given out. Much of the fun of Icar is collecting technology as the game progresses. 
If your player group are used to (and like) long Character generation sessions then do not list Equipment and give them a budget of 10 000 credits instead. Bionics and Armour should also be specified using a budget, letting the players choose what they want from their characters.
Experienced Characters
For Experienced Characters, create the Skeletons as normal and then give the players 20 RP and 10 000 credits to spend for every year of experience they have had. The RP may only be spent on Skills and Attributes (if justified). When actually playing, Characters will gain a lot more RP per year but that is because as played Character is a lot more exposed to interesting situations than the common person.
Skeletonless Method (Optional)
If you would prefer the players to choose the whole make-up of their character, you can allow them to buy everything from scratch. This might be a very long process. If the player decides not to take common schooling skills, they will have to justify that with background. Once Attributes are set (either through Random roll or Point Assign) give the players 270 Roleplaying Points and 20 000 credits to spend on their Characters. Use the usual RP spending rules.
Warning: This system is open to abuse, ensure that you remind the players that their Character choices need to be ratified by you.
Running an Icar sandbox
This section explains how to run Icar as a sandbox, providing some tools on easing your players into sandbox gaming, setting up setting, goals and events to keep them motivated.
Campaigns typically consist of two forms: mission based and sandbox. Mission based campaigns are where the GM sets up a series of tightly defined scenarios (or Adventures) that have a beginning and an end. The missions can be linear: where the players follow clues to take them from one staged event to another (sometimes call railroading) or they can be nonlinear, where the route to the goal is not obvious. In normal RPG parlance, missions are adventures.
A sandbox campaign is an open game where the players and NPCs all have goals and it is up to the players to decide how they meet those goals.
Icar campaigns begin as a series of clearly defined missions and then gradually move to a sandbox. This allows the player team to become accustomed to the setting without making any horrendous mistakes that kill the whole team early on. As the Characters become more mature, you can introduce sandbox elements until the player group is powering the plot. 
The three missions of the Scavenger Setting provided in this book is an example of linear missions that open up into more broad play opportunities. The Scavenger Setting as a whole can be used as an example of using the tools given here.
The Anatomy of a Sandbox
The Icar sandbox is a series of tools for you to use to do the following:
Keep the players motivated and the game moving forward.
Keep track of NPCs and what they are doing.
Understand and plot relationships between NPCs and the group.
Schedule crescendos and set pieces.
The tools used to do this are Themes, Plot Lines, Events and Hooks, Timelines, Relationship Diagrams, Consequences, GM Log, Organising your Game Session and Groups and Personal Goals. Used together, they make your Icar sandbox game. 
The Scavenger Setting included after this Section uses all of these tools and so acts as a full example of these concepts.
Creating a theme
A theme is a over arching concept that binds all of the plots together. A good way to set a theme is to pose a question and then use the plots to answer it. 
Example: Question is “What would happen if the Droids disappeared?”, the plots would then answer that question by including rapid colonisation, investigating the Droids, reclamation of lost colonies and so on.
A sandbox setting can have one or more themes but I recommend that for even an experienced and wily roleplay group a complex theme can be lost in the plots.
Creating a theme is difficult and requires some considerable inspiration. If you are stuck for inspiration then look outside of the Science Fiction genre, find an interesting theme and twist it to fit Icar. 
Example: you might take the theme from the film ‘Trading Places’ with Dan Ackroyd and Eddie Murphy - where rich people are turned into poor people as an experiment. The theme is ‘What happens when rich people become poor people?’. For here protagonists and plots can easily spring.
Avoid creating themes which buck any of the core premises of Icar. By doing so, various areas of the setting will start to unravel. 
Example Theme questions
What if the planet you were on was entirely controlled by a single benevolent artificial intelligence that was slowly going mad?
How would a team of waster party animals react if they were forced to save the planet they were on?
What would happen if someone made a human into an Automaton by putting controlling implants into their skull? Would anyone be able to tell the difference?
When everything you are told is the truth, how far would you have to go to prove the truths are not lies? Will you have to see the devastation of the Droids for yourself?
How would a slaver operate?
What would it be like living on an Orb where the Artificial Intelligence at its core was allowed to go through Ascension?
What would happen if the Droids actually invaded in a big way?
How would the Imperium deal with a brand new  and widespread uprising?
What would happen if the Droids started evolving past their ‘Kill Everything’ programming? Would they form nations and factions?
Plotlines
A plot line strings together a series of events to make up a story. A newly created plot line assumes that the players never interact with it. You lay out a plot line in the same way you would a normal story. 
Example: If the players were playing the Rebel Fleet in Star Wars: A New Hope, then an Empire Plot Line for the end of the film would look like: Death Star Arrive Yavin 4, Death Star moves orbit to see forest moon, Death Star Blows Up forest moon. In the film, the rebel fleet manage to stop the Death Star blowing up Yavin 4’s forest moon. The plot line, however, is written as if they do not intervene.
Plot can be created like any other story except you can expect the Characters to derail it. You will need a beginning, middle and end. Start by planning the end and work backwards to where the NPCs in the story will start.
Although plotlines are the things you might create at first, they are not used in play as they are but built into the Timeline (see Timelines Section). On a Timeline, all the plots are shown together in a coherent story.
Events and Hooks
An Event is a set-piece of action or scene. Events should be important turning points in the plotline. A Hook is a motivation for the Characters to be at a certain place. Hooks can either be generic for any event or specific to an event. Generic Hooks are more useful because they can generate their own little story line. For the included Scavenger Setting, there are only generic hooks. You might want to create some specific ones that connect the Characters in your group to the event.
Do not assume that the Characters will be at every (or any) event. If they are not then the event should continue as you envisaged. The more Hooks an event has applicable to it, the better the chance that the Characters will be present at it. 
Hooks rely upon the Characters of the game being three dimensional. If the Character is bland then they will have little reason to involve themselves in anything. Not only is that not much fun to play but it will lead the team to railroading as they will be relying on you to provide them with motivation.
Example Event: A demonstration against Tacquent is violently suppressed. 
Generic Hook: The team is invited to a party on Essofin. You might then decide that the party ends up running into the street to join the demonstration.
Specific Hook: A Character has a personal grudge against Tacquent, a Character is chasing a girl and she wants him to go with her, the Characters are offered cash to be body guards for a dignitary at the event.
Avoid making your Events too granular, “A demonstration against Tacquent is violently suppressed” would be about the right level. If you split that into people milling around, a protest march, some speeches and gun fight, you may be putting in a lot of work that you never get to use.
Hooks are your way of steering the campaign into interesting situations. Never force a player team to attend any given event, instead present them with Hooks that are just too good to pass up. If the game seems to stall, throw more hooks in. A single event can have many hooks.
Timelines
Timelines are where you pack together the events of more than one plotline into a single list of events. It is important to put all the events together so that you can see if they make sense as a single coherent story. 
For example, if one event is a planet’s evacuation then a global party scheduled after is unlikely to happen. 
Remember that the plotlines (and therefore the Timeline) will be created in such a way that it is assumed the players never interact with it. It should read like an interesting story by itself. Do not worry about too much detail, especially at the end of a given plotline as the Characters will interact with the NPCs during Events and this will have consequences.
Ensure that hooks occur before the event does so that the Characters have time to finish whatever it is they are doing and attend to the event.
Do not put dates on the Timelines
Every group has a different style of play. Some groups prefer to languish inside long, succulent plots. Other groups prefer a visceral experience. Do not put dates on the Timeline before you play so that you can move events forward (happen earlier) or push them back (happen further into the future). By doing this you can adjust the pace of the game to suit your group. 
To help you keep track of the Timeline, you can put times and dates on the diagram after they have occurred. You can also strike through an event when it has occurred.
Relationship Diagrams
A relationship diagram contains individual NPCs, corporations, syndicates, the player Characters and shows their relationships. Relationship diagrams are useful for tracking who are enemies or allies and for generating events for plots. 
Check out the Scavenger Setting relationship diagram. Each part represents a person or organisation and a line between them shows that there is a relationship. A solid line represents an alliance. A dotted line joins two enemies. Where one person has influence over another, an arrow head is used so that the boss is pointing at the subordinate.
Using Relationship Diagrams
Relationship Diagrams are living diagrams, they will change each time you play as relationships change. To maintain the diagram’s usefulness, redraw it on a regular basis. When ad-libbing NPCs to form the links between two organisations, write the name of the NPC on the link. When you come to redraw the Relationship Diagram, you can form that name into its own box. Relationship Diagrams do not need to be complete knowledge, leave off links that are obvious.
Example: The Machine is a syndicate and therefore is a natural enemy of the Star Enforcers (the police). There is no need to link these as enemies because it’s obvious. If the Star Enforcers are looking for a particular member of the Machine then that NPC can go on, linked to both.
Relationship Diagrams can be used to create Events and Hooks for your plotline. 
Example: If there are sworn enemies on the diagram, what would happen if they were both invited to the same party?
Drawing your own Relationship Diagrams
The first Relationship diagram is always the hardest to draw. Before starting, you should already have at least an outline of a plot.
From the plot, pick the most important organisations and write them on, putting organisation with similar goals (such as Technological or Humanist) near each other. Now link the organisations together. Any organisation you think the player Characters might interact with, add a few NPCs. Start with the names and flesh out as you need. If you are short on names, use the names of well known film and TV stars that fit the look of the NPC.
Do try and keep your diagram as simple as possible as you will need to be able to reference it quickly. Try and keep the text large and if the diagram gets very big, split it into two.
Consequences
Any action or interference should have consequences in Icar. Firefights may injure innocents, some of whom may want to wreak revenge. It is important that the players understand that their actions have repercussions. In a sandbox game, there can be many different plot running concurrently, it can be difficult for the players to understand what the cause of an event might be. If your players are new to sandbox gaming, make the consequences obvious when they happen.
Consequences might be changes to the relationship diagrams or changes in the Timeline. You can also add flavour by adding one-off events later in the Timeline for actions the players have done. An avenging brother of a slain innocent can pop up at the most annoying time!
Sandbox Troubleshooting
Are you having trouble running a sandbox? Things not flowing as well as you hoped? Here are some typical problems with their solutions. 
Players appear bored
Make the Hooks more obvious and provide more of them. Failing that, bring the events closer together.
Players keep missing Events
Make sure the hooks are appearing early enough for them to react. Alternatively, push the Events back.
Players don’t know who to trust so trust no-one
Give the Characters a single NPC confident that they can trust. It might be a member of a Character’s family or someone they have reason to trust.
Players ignore all the events and do their own thing
That is normal. If they are generating their own plots, construct Timelines around them. Put your plots on hold (by pushing back events) until a time when they run out of ways of ignoring the plot.
Organising your Game Session
Running a sandbox game requires more effort up front and more tending during. Furthermore, I am very keen to spend as much time playing the game as possible. As such, I use the following method of organising my time and the players too. You are the GM, they will take their lead from you.
Before the Session
It is important that you have the game fresh in your mind. Re-check relationship diagrams and events on plots and read through the last set of notes you wrote in your log.
The Session - Arrival
Pleasantries are unavoidable. If it is a weeknight, try and get the food prepared beforehand (pizza, curry, etc). Set finish time and schedule breaks.
Seated
Character sheets are handed out and by sitting down to play, it’s important to show that a line has been drawn. Pleasantries over, the business is gaming. I ensure I have a clock somewhere in my sight line - twitching a wrist or craning to see a clock will give over the wrong impression. You’re not bored, after all, you’re just ensuring that the session is progressing.
Recap
One player will recall the last session. Give the player the starting point. Reward the player with up to 3 RP if the recap is in Character and containing all the salient points. If the Character wasn’t present for a lot of the action, then they can still tell the story as if they had heard it from a third person.
Hand RP Out
RP is calculated as RP from play last session + recap + downtime. See Handing out Roleplaying Points on page 109.
RP spend
Players are encouraged to spend their RP quickly. Ask the players to explain to everyone what they have spent their RP on. This is a polite way of getting those that are slow to decide to decide more quickly.
Set scene
Describe where the Characters are and mention emotions. For this first explanation, feel free to lay on the senses thickly. You are setting the ball rolling.
Finish
Always aim to wrap up just before the finish time.
Randomisation - Three dice rule
There are occasions where you need to make a decision on behalf on an NPCs where there isn’t a clear direction to take.    The three dice rule will help you decide whether the NPC is going to help the NPCs, be indifferent or actively be unhelpful.
The three dice rule is helpful because you can roll (cupping) while still talking to the players and then (in mid sentence) glance at the dice to see the colour. As you are only looking for the nearest colour, you can keep talking. Reading off numbers takes the time but spotting colour is very easy.
Group glue and Personal Goals
In a sandbox game it is vital that each of the Characters has a personal goal and the group have a motivation for being together. This should really be inspired by the setting and rest of the group but if a player is having trouble thinking up a goal then ask them to choose from each of these steps. Go through twice. This is intentionally not a random roll system because each item has to be chosen to fit with a certain theme.
Group Glue Examples
Characters are long term friends (but their lives have been unremarkable up to this point).
Characters are family members
Characters are employed by same person (Scavenger Setting)
Characters have just been made redundant from same employer
Characters refugees from same world, invaded by the Droids
Personal Goal Builder
Pick Motivation Against someone else
Revenge / Broken Heart / Family Betrayal
Compensation
Answer to a question
Stolen object
Clash of belief
Irrational hatred
Pick desired outcome (numbers match with list above)
Target dies
Target maimed
Target augmented
Target goes insane
Target impoverished
Target exiled from home
Target pays money
Target answers question
Target returns object
Target admits mistake
Pick philosophical leaning of target
Humanist
Technologist
Neutral
Pick gender of target
Male
Female
Pick role of target
Imperial - Colony Council, Imperial Council, Star Enforcer, Star Civilisation (or ridiculously difficult: Star Fleet or Star Sci).
Syndicate Roles - Pick a Syndicate and then say whether they are a Boss, Lieutenant or a lowly Operative.
Spacecraft Crew Member - Captain/Pilot/Gunner/Engineer, give name of Spacecraft and its type.
General Public - Lawyer, Miner, Builder, Health worker, Engineer etc.
Pick method of offense
Target unknowingly offended Character
Target accidentally offended Character and is scared of confrontation
Target accidentally offended Character and does not care about confrontation
Target knowingly offended Character and is scared of confrontation
Target knowingly offended Character and does not care about confrontation
Pick a twist (for GM - do not tell the player!)
Target is the wrong person
Target is close family member (player should know this)
Target is suicidal maniac
Target is undercover Imperial Council operative
Target has become an Akarakian Missionary
Target has crossed the Light Jump Net into Droid Space
Scavenger Setting Revisited
The Scavenger Setting is a springboard into Icar that begins with a familiar mission based philosophy and finished as a sandbox campaign where the players are driving the goals of the team.
The Characters are austere, the team begins with only one gun and the Skills are less than generous. You need to stress that the Characters need to work as a team. If a player is keen on playing a sociopath or disruptive Character (which can be fun) then this is not really the right setting.
Prerequisites
Before running this scenario, it is suggested that you have done the following. Although you don’t need to, the terminology will make more sense if you do. There’s a lot of reading to do, but a little effort now will result in a great reward later.
1. Print this document. I would recommend doing a couple of copies of the player section of the Scavenger Setting and give this out to the players to read. This section is not for the players, so keep it secret!
2. Read and understood the rest of this book. It helps if you have a working knowledge of the rules.
5. Print an Arms 5 weapon sheet. For the Security Character class. This can be found in the Equipment Index.
6. Print the Shakespeare Standard Tech Kit. For all the team to gawp at. This can be found in the Equipment Index.
7. Print a Gaia Jack card. For the Human Resources Character and for the Rayengine Technician.
8. Print Orbihaul Sheet. This will be their planetary transport (after the first mission). This can be found in the Equipment Index.
9. Print Character Sheets. There are 3 separate pages required for each Character: The front page (with the Deviant wheel on it), the second page (with Skills and equipment) and a Human / Armour sheet. You’ll need as many sets as you have players.
What’s Here
This GM Section is split in two. The first section contains three missions that will help you introduce Icar, the setting and some mechanics. These missions can be run as shown or used as examples for your own. The second half sets out a sandbox tools introduced in Running an Icar sandbox on page 112. The sandbox includes the theme; extended background; plots; events and example hooks; and even more plot ideas.
The First Few Icar Sessions
Your first few Icar sessions should be light and quick. Even if you intend on running a very dark and brutal campaign, the first sessions should be easy to help the players get used to all the terms and rules. I recommend you order your first few sessions like this:
Before Session 1: Send round the Icar web link www.icar.co.uk and recommend they download and flick through the rules, reading the Scavenger Setting. Do not rely on your players doing this but do give the option.
Session 1: Character creation and the start of Mission 1.
Session 2: Continue Mission 1 and finish it.
Session 3 and 4: Mission 2.
Session 4 and 5: Mission 3.
Session 6 and onwards: sandbox gaming.
Your First Icar Session
Before beginning the delicate first session, it is recommended that the players have read the player section of this document. It also helps if the players have all chosen a Character concept (personality) and Skeleton (job). It may be difficult work out the job just yet as players might want to discuss who does what. Chances are, if left to their own devices, the crew will be made up of Security personnel because they are the skeletons that have the guns. For the first session, I recommend that this is the order of events:
1. Character Creation
Get the Characters out the way as soon as possible. The players should choose a concept (examples given in the players section of this book). The players can then fill in the deviant wheel. Leave the height and weight to last, if in doubt, use the human averages (Height: 6’6”, weight 14st). Place of birth can be found by rolling a D12 and checking the table below.
D12	Place
1,2,3	Corisk
4,5,6	Essofin
7	Kale
8	Dess-Kay-Dar
9	On a spacecraft in The Fleet of House Granger
10	The surface of Obyrworld
11	Outside Anadar - a Dorian Cluster
12	Outside Anadar - a prosperous Sayshell Cluster

2. Money and Kit
Apart from a change of clothing and some personal effects, they have no kit to start with. That which is listed on the sheets are given to them once they have been hired by The Chief (Iss Horn Barnarder). The amount of money they have is:

(Roll a D10 twice, add these two together and multiply the result by ten. The maximum is 200.)
3. Description of Area
Give an overview of the area (an example is given below, read this out if you like), this sets the scene. The Sector of Remmar and the clusters around Darkspace should sound like a clean, hard working place that is trying really hard to get as many of its systems to be recognised and given resources by the Imperium. Anadar should sound like a war zone, grubby, dirty and without trust. The team start on Ominor Orbital around Coriska 3, on the corner of Anadar, they will all have gone there from their home world looking for work. Anadar has many systems that were abandoned during The Droid War. These are not marked as many of them are not deemed safe or there is a lack of facilities at these locations. 
4. Interview
All the Characters have a reason for applying for a job on the Scav vessel. This is included in the Character concept section. What they don’t know is what happened to the last team (see The Last Team on page 118). Also, they will all be immediately employed, because there are no other applicants and that the Botchery Clipper is keen to get away. The ship does not have a very good reputation, but the Characters (or players) are unlikely to know this.
The Captain (Madeline Stuo) and The Chief (Iss Horn Barnarder) will meet them in the shadiest bar on Ominor Orbital, full of shady looking Characters. A fist-fight will break out during the interview, raised voices and drinks spilt. The team might want to get involved but the Chief will ask them not to. The Chief does all the talking, have him ask standard questions about next of kin and odd ones such as “Do you have any religious practises which may lead to decompression?” which may point at problems they’ve had in the past. A list of possible questions is given at the end of this section.
All the Characters should be plied with a lot of kaisa (beer) during the briefing and after that, taken straight to the Botchery Clipper. It’s a bit like press-ganging. The more drunken they are, the better (Meat attribute checks after a couple of beers). The sober ones will be shocked at the state of the Botchery Clipper, the drunken ones will not.
The crew joining fee is 300. None of them will have 300, so take all they have and then say that the remainder will be taken out of their first pay packet. If they complain, say it is standard practise. It’s not but then none of the Characters will know that. They might find out in the future, by which time it will be too late.
5. Medical Inspection
Each crew member should be given a bout of medical, which ends with them being injected with a serum that slows the effects of decompression and purges toxins from the body. A lot of vomiting  and staggering about before they pass out. Dr. Sorex has a terrible bedside manner and will refer to the crew as ‘Apes’, ‘Meaties’, ‘Biologicals’ or ‘The Condemned’.
Have them do their medicals one after the other - so they can see the effects on the previous one. You can even take each player out of the room to explain what happens and them get them to explain to the rest of the team the dreadful reaction. If there are any Brick Shit Houses (a Psychotheatric) amongst the party, they will not feel any of the effects.
6. Transit
When they wake up from their unconsciousness, they will be en-route. There is no holoroom on the Botchery Clipper, so entertainment will need to be found other ways. Iss Horn Barnarder will start training them in flying the Orbihaul, so that they won’t have to use it on the rather poor autopilot.
7. First Mission - The Ungodly Act
The first mission is a typical Scavenger mission and is included later.
Setting Revisited
There is a lot more to the cluster of Anadar than first meets the eye (or that is marked on the map). This section aims to give you, the GM, a detailed look into the workings of Anadar and add systems to the map. All this information can be released, but over time and effort and perhaps by rumour. 
It is written here without bias, the way it is. However, every NPC will have a bias. Do not be afraid to put a spin on the information each time you tell it. The players will soon realise that the oracle of information that is the GM might not be all it is cracked up to be.
The Botchery Clipper
The Botchery Clipper is not all it seems to be. This is split into sections of interest, beginning with the current crew.
Captain Stuo
The Captain is the most unscrupulous woman in known space. She will stop at nothing to get to salvage first and will sacrifice anything to make a profit. She says very little because she believes that the fewer words you use, the more impressive it is. She is cold and heartless. Perhaps, deep down, she does have a fondness for her crew but she buries it so far down no surgeon could ever find it.
Captain Stuo has an alcohol problem but is very adept at covering it up - saying nothing hides her slurred speech. The Chief (Iss Horn Barnarder) knows her secret but thinks it is better kept quiet.
Iss Horn Barnarder
In contrast to the Captain, Iss Horn is a genuinely nice person. He does not counter the Captain because he is scared of her and because of his age, he would not be able to get a job on another ship. He yearns to get back onto the Scavenger Team side of things (going to wrecks) and will try anything to do so. He’s also terrified of retirement and if anyone mentions it, he will get angry.
Captain Stuo will not let The Chief off the spacecraft for long, not only is he a valuable well of knowledge but he also has a huge array of contacts that the Captain often calls upon. The team will often accompany Iss Horn when they visit small colonies around Anadar, Iss Horn is known and liked everywhere.
Dr. Sorex
Dr. Sorex is an extremely old Automaton. The AI is over 500 years old and has been slowly acquiring knowledge. He used to work as an Imperial Midwife but after seeing his 9th baby incinerated for carrying the Genus 2 virus, he began going through ascension.
He can perform just about any function on the ship, but would do so with much complaining and little flair. He will make snide comments about the Captain and about humans (he will call them biologicals) in general. His appalling bedside manner (and lack of respect for his patients) makes him generally unemployable - except by Stuo. He uses Biology as a curse and a cuss. Any words to do with human anatomy, such as flesh, bone, blood and meat can be said with spite.
The Botchery Clipper Structure
The Clipper is made from the parts of other ships. Around the inside of the cargo bay and within access tubes the new team will now and again catch the sight of different paint jobs, even the names of the craft that it was taken from.
The forward bay is sealed up. It will look like a bulkhead and the crew may never notice it. Behind the wall is a Droid Mk3, painted yellow, without ammunition and chained to the floor. It will power up only if the bay is opened - from inside or out (cut in through the hull). Also, the ship has lots of areas where the technology looks a bit Droid-like. This is because it is Droid technology. Of course, the use of Droid technology is illegal and if any Imperium unit was to check it, the ship would be impounded. Captain Stuo keeps the Botchery Clipper looking enough like a wreck that Imperial craft would not pay it a second glance.
Any Zero G technician Character types (who should be familiar with spacecraft) should be given an uneasy feeling about the ship. They will not put their finger on it, as much as they try to search, scan and so on. This is a result of the hints of Droid style technology.
Botchery Clipper Orbihaul (missing)
At the start, The Botchery Clipper does not have an Orbihaul. It is a very notable thing that is missing as without it, there is no way for the crew to get onto a planet surface. The Orbihaul was captured by a rival Scavenger crew before the player Characters join the Botchery Clipper. The first introductory mission (The Ungodly Act) will see the player team returning to the Ungodly Act to get the Orbihaul back.
Dodgy Dealings
By law, any Droid equipment found while scavenging must not be touched but reported over Gaia. This is testimony to dangerous nature. However, Captain Stuo sees the value of this sort of cargo and will trade it as if it was normal scavenged equipment. By doing so, she puts everyone’s lives in danger. There is some Droid cargo is special crates at the back of the main hold. Many of the missions have some sort of Droid element - this is no accident and the team might start to realise the importance of the Droid items to the Captain.
Pay
Is minimal. Regardless of what they scavenge, they will only really get 200 per job. The ship costs will always rise to leave 200 for each member.
The Last Team
The last team were less than profitable, making mistakes and poor judgements about what to take. The team leader, Tom Wright was having an affair with the Captain. He was starting to realise that the Captain was sending them on missions to pick up Droid equipment and he confronted her. While on leave on the Rhot Orb, he took a new girlfriend. 
The Captain took her revenge by sending the team down onto a Orbital wreck in a decaying orbit - where the Scavenger Crew from The Ungodly Act were Scavenging. The Ungodly Act Scavenger crew caused the Botchery Clipper team’s deaths by stealing their Orbihaul when the wreck (Aprose Orbital) was breaking up under gravity. Captain Stuo decided not to attempt a rescue but to leave the system and lay a honey trap.
The Botchery Clipper pretended to be a craft in distress and when the The Ungodly Act approached (with sinister intentions), the Botchery Clipper opened fire, knocking out communications and main power. The Botchery Clipper then left, hoping that by the time they returned, the The Ungodly Act crew would be dead.
There are three crew members left alive on board - one on life support and the other two trying to fix the craft. Sadly, neither of them are technical - one is good with guns and the other is in Human Resources.
The first mission is to return to The Ungodly Act.
Lord E. Tacquent
Tacquent is a 54 year old psychotic. Acute megalomania grips his everyday world and he has decided that he will overthrow the Imperium. He has little patience (he killed his first wife for taking too long getting dressed one morning) and is a shrewd business man. He plans to take over the Remmar Sector by using a secret army of Drorgs (a Borg with some Droid system installed) and a fleet of ships (his Navy, see below) that is almost finished. His 12 children suffer from a similar psychosis and are much more in the public eye. They appear to be doing most of the work for the Tacquent House, but really they are puppets, carrying out orders from their father.
Tacquent is a technophile. He will try to get hold of any piece of technology, no matter how dangerous. His secret police will often be the ones dealing with Stuo’s acquired Droid technology. He sees technology as a method of getting hold of his major goal - Remmar domination.
Tacquent vs Granger
Tacquent hates the Granger family with a seething fury. Accepting the Granger fleet into Essofin would be beneficial, but Tacquent want to see the destruction of the Granger Fleet entirely.
Tacquent is waging a secret war against the Granger family, using a combination of black operation style attacks using the Metropol disguised as pirates and economic power. The war is not working as the size of the Granger Fleet still grows. If the player team do not get involved, then the Tacquent Navy will be brought in to deal with the problem.
Metropol
The Essofin police force is actually the front for his secret army. They are trained in police work, but mainly operate through fear by being heavily armed and acting with a heavy handed approach. There is crime on Essofin but it is organised and protected by the Metropol. The Metropol numbers over 250,000 soldiers, most of which have Borg and Droid technology installed into them. For any police force, the players will soon realise that they are heavily overpowered. Use mid-range bionics to represent their statistics.
Analysts have noticed and reported many times on the fact that the Metropol appears to be a huge force and that the Imperium should sit up and take note.  Tacquent’s spin doctors generic report is that if any expansion to abandoned colonies was attempted then a mobile security force large enough to cope with an influx of people is required. This is a reasonable reason, given that the sceptics do not see the full size of the Metropol.
The Metropol Savants
A section of the Metropol which is somewhere between the secret police and the intelligence gathering corps and number approximately 500. They use Gaia to find information and have a small number of active agents (under 50) that move around any system within Anadar. The Savants are not widely known by the populace and this adds mystery to their operations. Their relationship with the Metropol regular is patchy at best as they use the Metropol for arrests and assassinations without giving reasons or applying law. They are all fiercely loyal and if captured by another system’s council while on an operation are unlikely to give away any information (Hard for Interrogate rolls).
Tacquent’s Navy
The Navy consists of approximately 100 combat cruisers (around the size of a Gaterunner but nowhere near as quick or well equipped), each with a minimum crew of 5 or 6. Tacquent has not invested in any fighter technology as he believes that it is too expensive to operate. This is a poor move and will eventually lead to greater costs both in monetary and human terms. The ships are designed with point to point light jump technology and low power pulse lasers (the ammunition is cheap). The fleet is used to destroy pirates that might threaten Tacquent’s interests and can be used as a taxi service for the ground troops of the Metropol, should they ever be required. 
The Tacquent Fleet is currently spread across Anadar, in little pockets around abandoned systems. This sparsity helps keep the fleet hidden. The players may meet some of these craft while in deep space, perhaps for Stuo to trade Droid parts. Such a well armed fleet is not illegal but its existence might lead the Imperium to look closely at Tacquent’s Droid technology dealings.
The Fleet of House Granger
The Grangers are a powerful force that would like one of the upper reaches of the family to become an Imperial Peer. By trading and building systems with a friendly hands-off approach, they mimic the Imperium’s methodology in hope this will be enough when Darkspace is to get a Imperial Peer. 
House Granger is openly Humanist in philosophy. They distrust any Automaton of intelligence higher than Artificial Intelligence Power 5 (which is the upper limit of most spacecraft). Like most Humanists, they believe that the human race belongs on planets that have breathable atmospheres. They hold great store by these sorts of planets and believe they should be looked after.
Star Civ and the Grangers
The rumours of The Imperium’s involvement in House Granger is true. Two Star Civilisation officers are on board the fleet - one openly using the fleet as a way of charting Anadar. The second officer is quietly grooming members of the Granger family for Imperial Peerage.
Scavengers and the Granger Fleet
The Granger Fleet are openly hostile to Scavengers and often refer to them as carrion as they pick over the bones of civilisations. Also, the Grangers believe that they are little better than pirates. Although this might appear to be a little unfair, it is a fair assessment of many of the Scavenger crews as they skirt the line between legal and illegal operations. The Granger Fleet will trade with trade with Scavenger crews but it is always a tense and unreliable relationship.
Pinacle Trade Group
Not widely known to be owned by the Granger family, the Pinacle Trade Group (PTG) has a lot of power within Anadar. Any system is reliant on the trade vessels that move the product from the planet surface to other systems. This is how most systems make their money. 
The advantage of a Trade Group is that if a spacecraft breaks down or has crew problems, then another craft will pick up the job of moving product from the planet surface. Also, a regular trade routes can create massive discounts in the ferrying of goods. This is how systems like Kale continue to exist. They do not produce a massive amount of goods or anything that is particularly special but they have regular routes set up with the PTG and thus the cost of transportation is greatly reduced. The more ships that are in the group, the more efficient it is - as bulk costs can be spread across all ships. 
The number of vessels in the trade group is a closely guarded secret as the number exceeds 2000! An operation of this size would be more closely inspected by the Imperium, due to the incredible economic power a single company can have over many billions of people, but is yet undiscovered. PTG operates craft of many different sizes, from small and fast Cruisers with couriers on board through to massive Freighters over 2000m in length.
The ability to choose what systems they visit give the PTG incredible power. By denying a small system (with around 90k inhabitants) a regular trade route means that they will find it difficult to compete with those systems of similar size and productivity. This limits growth as people are more likely to set up crofts on those places that have a solid method of transporting goods. The PTG also have a Star Dock of their own in Corisk, but it is held under the corporate name of Hequar Star docks. This allows very cheap repairs and upgrades.
Crews
It’s no secret that the crews within the PTG are very well looked after and the pay is high. Unlike many vessels trading in Anadar, the PTG crews are all paid a monthly salary, rather than based on percentage of profits. Also, the PTG does trips to outside the two clusters, so the wealth of other systems can be shared. This extended Remmar experience is very important when trying to get the best price for some goods. House Granger often use their extensive economic knowledge to aid these decisions and it’s common that a employee of House Granger can be found on smaller vessels as a guide or aid.
How to represent the PTG to the players
The players should see the PTG as these very intelligent and smartly turned out people. The PTG crews will pretty much ignore the player team as Scavenger crews are not regarded with any social standing at all. If pressed, the PTG crews are likely to be snobbish and aloof, only starting fights on occasion. They have the best equipment, the best Skills, the best uniforms and best lifestyle, they do not need to speak to likes of the player team!
The Su Chi
The Su Chi are backing House Granger to become Imperial Peers of dark space. The Su Chi recruit Humanist Extremists from the Pinacle Trade Group and the Granger Fleet and provide black operations for the Grangers as a whole. For more information on the Su Chi, see Su Chi on page 67.
The Machine
The Machine have always had a presence in Anadar and as such have allied with the Metropol as the only other alternative to Fleet Granger. It is an alliance of a common enemy, rather than a joining of ideals. The Machine and House Tacquent make uneasy bedfellows but both benefit from the relationship - for now at least. 
The Machine hope that Essofin might become a home of open rights for Automatons and House Tacquent make use of intelligent Automatons from The Machine for building technology. For more information see The Machine on page 68.
The Technomages
The Technomages are everywhere in Anadar. They have a number of secret installations where they research a variety of illegal technologies - Droid technology being one of them.
The Technomages are most useful to the team as it is a way of getting hold of high technology in return for found Droid technology or rare technical items. The Technomages pay well and make good contacts for the team. Captain Stuo will unwittingly have a few Technomage contacts from selling off illegal Droid technology. For more information see The Technomages on page 65.
Anadar’s Systems
This section includes some additional information on the systems within Anadar. Some of this information can be used as rumour or can be used as description for when the player team visit the system. Not all of the details provided need be used all at once, they can be fed in pieces to the players. It is wise not to change too much on these systems. If you feel creative, then it’s best to create a new system, rather than alter an existing one. This will help consistency in the Timelines. Also, if you do make a change, it’s best to alter the information here (using a footnote in pencil) so that you can remember what the change you made was. The information in italics is what is given earlier and allows you to easily see what the players have already been told.
Anadar’s History
Anadar once teemed with extraordinary colonies. Less famous than other clusters in Remmar, it quietly maintained the very highest standards of art, culture and science. One thousand years ago the Droids flushed out humanity leaving much of the colonies intact. Only those colonies where the inhabitants clung to firmament were destroyed, leaving a patchwork of the remnants of civilisation.
Anadar’s low concentration of star systems and proximity to the centre of the galactic arm meant that many sought refuge there, assuming the Droids would concentrate only on those clusters with high star concentrations. They were wrong. As the Droids swept through, precision attacks disabled spacecraft and killed crews with alarming efficiency.
In 92023, Anadar is a typical Remmar cluster. Some systems are shining beacons of Imperial excellence and others are fledgeling settlements, growing around the edges of the Droid ravaged colonies. The broad areas of void in between contain fleets of disabled spacecraft, abandoned orbitals, deserted colonies and ruins. It is this clutter upon which teams of Scavengers search.
Essofin
Essofin is controlled by a powerful self-proclaimed Lord E. Tacquent it is prosperous but under the tight grip of its Lord. The Metropol (local Police Force) use aggressive force to go about their work and visitors are reminded about the extensive laws on a regular basis. The system does profit from this situation and has reportedly low levels of crime.
Structure
Essofin is a system with 10 planets, of which two have inhabitable atmospheres. It also has a high number of orbitals which provide large raw material output through mining. Although this holds the largest share of the system’s profits (32%), it also has a massive manufacturing capability (holding 29% of the profits). Essofin is a very busy system, it’s principle planet, Sword (Essofin 6) being the most active and the home of Tacquent. A huge number of craft enter and leave the system each hour  (9 to 10 thousand per hour) and thus it is very easy to come and go without being noticed. Essofin has the strongest economy in Anadar as is self-sufficient.
Essofin architecture
The architecture of the planets and orbitals can be described as being dark. As the Mex buildings are made from local materials, the builds are often either gold or onyx in colour. This gives the system an evil and oppressive feeling. Tacquent invests in the style of the Mex buildings and so Essofin is festooned with arches, alcoves, walkways, stained glass windows and monuments.
In Gaia, the depiction of Essofin is precise and there are a huge number of council owned automated Gaia entities that record and report the identification of people and spacecraft. This builds up a huge information store of information regarding people coming and going. If anyone is banned from coming into the system and their ship or Isis is spotted, they will be immediately reported to the Metropol or the Metropol Savants. Of course, these automated systems can be fooled and hidden from (pass in Hacking roll), but they must be anticipated and the roll should be made upon arrival in Essofin. Chances are, players will be caught out the first time and then prepared subsequent times.
Essofin’s Criminal Hulks
Essofin also has a large number of hulks in orbit around the star. These vehicles are mostly unpowered (beyond minor course corrections) and consist of a number of very large freighters that are permanently welded together. In these colonies are the dregs of the system and this is where much of the crime goes on. They are considered private vessels and thus the Metropol may not enter them unless on unofficial business or chasing down a criminal from another place within the system. This makes them an extremely attractive option for player Characters if they get in trouble with Tacquent. 
The most famous (and largest) of these hulks is the Essofin Flyer which is run by a figurehead council and actually run by a Mafia-style crime family. Tacquent would very much like to be rid of this family but they are a ‘known evil’ and thus can be watched, at the very least. If contact is made with them, they may appear to be in league with Tacquent, but this is just for appearances and if the players get ‘in’ with the Essofin Flyer Mafia, then they will soon learn that this is far from the case!
Kale
Essentially a humanist system, Kale amounts to very little with only a small amount of agriculture and little or no trade produce. Hippy-like values and a communist view of possession makes this system unable to compete in the difficult trade market in Remmar as a whole. 
Their ideals hark back to pre-Codex Akarakian beliefs - that toil should be both mind and body in equal measure. Kale inhabitants take this a step further and believe that mind and soul are interlocked and so philosophical reflection is equally important.
Structure
Kale is a system with only one inhabited planet, Liberty (Kale 3). Liberty is populated with 90% humanists that are trying the best to get ‘back to basics’. To then, this means farming with as little mechanical aid as possible. For some, this means an automated harvester, for others, they like to eke out their existence with ploughs made from sustainable forests. It’s a simple life but the population is happy for it. 
The other 10% are those people that realise that for this dream planet to work, some people will have to interact and work with the rest of the cluster and they live in the only, small Mex city: Rhea. This includes the council, star port support staff and Hauler crews. These people like Kale for the quietness and relaxed attitude to trade. People are honest and well meaning. Although the architecture is simple (very typical Mex construction, with very little embellishment), it is functional and that is the system to a tee.
House Granger’s Influence
The one strong factor of Kale is that it has a contract with the Pinacle Trade Group and is often visited by the Fleet of House Granger. This allows the cheap transportation of the food off planet. The reason for this is that House Granger are keen to take control of Kale and they see this as the best way of doing so. Pinacle are not the only trade group running to the planet, but they hold the largest share. It could be argued that without this, Kale would not be listed as an established system.
House Tacquent’s Machinations
The House of Tacquent would also like to get their hands on the system of Kale. This is definitely a desire of Tacquent as he sees the resources that Kale has to offer as a good reason to take over. Also, he finds the under utilisation of the food output under the small croft on Liberty as ridiculous. His plans for domination include Kale and he has begun by offering the council security and resource aid in return for their allegiance. Of course, no-one attacks Kale (there’s nothing to steal!) and the Pinacle Trade Group contract allows the system a fair amount of economic security so they refuse and keep their independence and ideals.
Pri-Sot (The Hidden System)
Little is known about Pri-Sot except that it is very difficult to locate. Situated in a volumetric gap within a large nebula, Pri-Sot keeps is anonymity. It is believed that it is a hideout for criminals and pirates, the nebula providing an excellent hiding place.
Pirates and Outcasts
Pri-Sot is a system whose legend is far more impressive that it’s reality. A single, scorched planet (Imbroglio) orbits a red dwarf star. Imbroglio has a corrosive atmosphere and most of the population of this system is either under the surface of the planet, in the massive mining colony of Brogg, or in one of Pri-Sot’s 6 orbitals! Primarily, Pri-Sot is the home of political outcasts from elsewhere and those who are hiding from the long arm of the Imperium, without the dangers of the lone systems to contend with. This includes a large number of space-faring folk (pirates) and it does cater for them with excellent technological and 0g star docks.
Pri-Sot is completely self-sufficient because any regular trade route would make it too easy to locate. Food is produced in massive underground hydroponic landscapes and it can feed more than the population requires. The council of Pri-Sot is surprisingly well run, the sometimes overly violent police force enforcing a cut-down version of Imperial law. Pri-Sot does have the death penalty.
Pri-Sot (not) on Gaia
On Gaia, Pri-Sot is a tour de-force. Normally, spacecraft use Gaia to locate a system when planning a light jump across space. However, Pri-Sot uses a huge number of Entities to confuse the Gaia presence. This can not be hacked and plays upon the very nature of Gaia. You can not access Pri-Sot Gaia information from outside the system but you can access elsewhere from Pri-Sot. When someone talks to a person in another system from Pri-Sot, the location is given as ‘Unknown - Dead Space?’. This is highly desirable for the sorts of people who are there. The largest issue with this system is that most security system will not allow someone of this location near their establishments, thus hackers often operate from their own spacecraft - giving them a location.
Finding Pri-Sot
The only ways to find Pri-Sot is either an extensive search of the nebula (takes 10 days) or by being given relative time and space co-ordinates. This means that it is a location at a certain time. Due to the space-time properties of the nebula, a pure location is not enough to locate the system. Thus, if the player team are told where Pri-Sot is, this information will only be good for an hour, if they go too early or too late, they will not find the system. There is no method of working out where the system is, given a number of previous locations and times. The system itself does not move, just the space and time around it.
Rhot Orb
As the tales suggest, Rhot Orb is packed with hidden treasure. Treasure that predates the Droid invasion is in works of art and other antique valuables that fetch a high price with the art dealers and wealthy of Sayshell. Since the Droid invasion pirates have used it as an ideal place to hide just about anything from whole spacecraft to valuable minerals. 
Like all Orbs, Rhot Orb is huge. So large that treasure hunters searching without the co-ordinates of known treasure are unlikely to find anything at all.
The Jungle
The inner sphere of Rhot Orb was once a beautifully manicured world with every geological feature you can imagine - fields, savanna, mountains, lakes, rivers and a huge ocean. However, jungle and swamps have taken over, even climbing up the taller mountains. The exclusive villas have been consumed by the plant life and although the insides of the buildings remain intact, they are very difficult to find.
Treasure Hunters
The people who live inside the Orb refer to themselves as treasure hunters and there are families who stretch back many generations living in nomadic groups within the skin. Once in a generation, a family will happen upon a truly huge find of treasure, which they must protect until it can be sold to a steady stream of traders. Most of the hunters are friendly to outsiders but less so to other hunter families. If the players own a spacecraft then the treasure hunters will be their best friend.
Dess-Kay-Dar
Dess-Kay-Dar is a mining system whose council rarely lasts longer than a few months at a time. A large number of rich and mining companies own the gas and mineral mining operations throughout the system and all attempt to place a puppet government in power that will be of benefit to them. 
Each of the mining companies have their own security force, which they use to protect their interests. The employees of these live and breathe the mines where they work and as such are fanatical about their companies. Their pride and interest in politics is universal in Dess-Kay-Dar and this is what fuels the rioting. The upshot is that no single mining company gets the upper hand - even when they local a seam of rich mineral.
Dess-Kay-Dar is a good place to sell any kind of technological salvage and the mining companies do offer work to scavenger vessels for finding very particular technical goods.
Franesk (not marked)
A system so small it is not listed on the Anadar Star Map, Franesk has been quietly funded by the Granger Fleet for over a year. The population level has not reached a point where it is listed in any of the system guides held at the Star Civilisation offices on Coriska. Inclusion into these guides is normally achieved by request and application or by a Star Civilisation agent visiting the system. Franesk will suddenly become noticed and should ‘appear’ on the star map (draw it on). The system is a thriving place and will have a massive population that will be rapidly be increasing. When you are ready to bring it into the fore, here is a description:
Although a new system, Franesk has a very strong economy. With the assistance of the Granger Fleet, this agricultural colony also has an artistic side and is producing excellently designed buildings, vehicles and Gaia objects. Franesk has also established several Pinacle Trade Group trade routes, allowing it to undercut most of the systems in Anadar for food produce.
Tao
Tao is purely supported by a Pinacle Trade Group contract, Tao has a number of small industries that give it a diverse culture. The main colony is an inhabitable planet, the surface covered in rich oceans teeming with life. Erratic and often violent weather prohibits wide scale farming but the farmers have adapted and manage to turn a surplus for trade. 
Tao has a small Orbital whose main outputs are mining, luxury goods and technology. A small, automated manufacturing operation produces goods mostly for trade. 
The populace of Tao may seem a little vague, but are essentially a hardy people. Not scared of the most severe conditions, they doggedly work to improve and expand their colony.
Tao is the most uncomplicated system in Darkspace. It has a small number of people doing some very specialist tasks and that is pretty much it. 
Machinations
Tao is a favourite stop for the Granger Fleet as they are a one-stop location for lots of the things that the Fleet needs: food, water, raw materials and technology.
Tacquent’s family are keen on Tao because of the opportunity it presents and Tacquent himself wants Tao purely to reduce the number of place where the Granger Fleet are welcome.
Campaign Sandbox
Relationship Diagram
The Relationship Diagram shows the main relationships between the key players in Anadar. On the left of the diagram is Tacquent and his link with the criminal Syndicate The Machine through the Metropol (and the Savants). In the middle is the Botchery Clipper, where Captain Stuo is working with the Metropol (see Introductory Mission 2, the Lethal Rings of Obyrworld). The Botchery Clipper is a natural enemy of the Granger Fleet. On the right hand side of the diagram are the Humanist elements of the campaign - which is centred on the Granger Fleet. They control the Pinacle Trade Group, who often deal with the Su Chi criminal syndicate.
Timeline
The example Timeline has three plotlines: Tacquent, Granger and ‘Other’, which includes the Imperium plots and the Syndicates.
The Timeline as a whole tells a story of a tussle between Tacquent and the Granger Fleet, culminating in an all out Fleet vs Fleet war at the end. The Su Chi are always allied with the Granger Fleet and the Machine start being allied to Tacquent. This does not last and a secret war rages on Essofin and Kale. Although controlled (and funded) by The Granger Fleet, the Pinacle Trade Group acts in a business-like manner.
In this campaign, Tacquent makes up the obvious villain and the Grangers are represented as a sinister group. Their motivations are the same as Tacquent’s - to become Imperial Peers but their methods are less violent.
Players vs Who?
The most obvious route for a Gamesmaster to take is to make Tacquent the obvious enemy and then either ally with the Grangers or attack Tacquent alone. If you have a player group new to sandbox gaming, this is the obvious route.
If your players are a little more feisty, you may want to have them ally with Tacquent and fight back against the Grangers. The Imperial influence, although benevolent, can be made to appear malignant. The Grangers are humanist and that means that they do not treat technology and Automatons with proper respect. If the players have gained a soft spot for Dr Sorex after the 100th time he has glued them back together, that might be a good way to spin against them.
Control of Systems
Being ‘in control’ of a system means nothing if you cannot support it with trade spacecraft. Every colony is lacking in something and it is trade vessels that bring it. This is where the balance between Tacquent, who can gain control of a colony’s council and the Granger Fleet (and thus Pinacle Trade Group) who control how they sell.
Hooks
Below is a list of generic hooks, any of which can be used to put the Characters in the right place at the right time.
Invited to a party
Hired by Granger fleet as Mercenaries to disrupt Tacquent operations.
Hired by Tacquent to infiltrate Granger fleet.
Transport Droid cargo from Essofin to Rhot Orb.
Rhot Orb treasure hunters contact Characters to arrange transport of goods.
Tacquent family member charters Character’s craft for some tourism.
Crew on a disabled pirate craft need passage to Pri-Sot. One of the pirates knows how to get there.
The Great Anadar Fayre on Corisk. 4 days long, 10 square miles of festival, music, dancing, art, markets, bars, deals done and people disappear. Everyone will be there. Each colony sets up a large ‘tent’ representing their history and customs.
Characters offered a charter from a Borg that wants to go to Obyrworld. The Borg has Droid technology installed and goes mad en route.
One of the Characters sleeps with a high ranking member of the Tacquent Family. Being inbred and insane, she/he becomes obsessed by the player Character. This person becomes either ally or enemy.
A Dess-Kay-Dar corporation trying to gain power on Dess-Kay-Dar contact team to turn a scheduled peaceful demonstration into a riot.
The Machine (Syndicate) need to evacuate ten Automatons who have started ascension on Tao before they are destroyed. The Automatons will need to be stolen and carried somewhere safe.
Su Chi (Syndicate) are gathering on Essofin and need safe passage for some of their operatives. Once on Essofin, the team may get embroiled in a number of terrorist actions against House Tacquent.
Technomages are looking for lost technology in the Rings of Obyrworld, they can scan for it. The team find out it is a powerful light jump engine. If persuaded, the Technomages will allow them to have it as long as a Technomage can study it working.
During an attempted mugging, the team find a stolen wallet on one of the muggers. It contains a data card with co-ordinates of valuables on the Rhot Orb.
Insane Tacquent Family member requires a charter to take him on a killing spree on another system. He and some bodyguards will talk openly about the fact that they are going to hunt some humans on whatever colony they’re going to.
Introductory Missions
To help run your first Icar campaign, three missions are included below. They have been created to demonstrate a feel for Icar, rather than setting out canon. Feel free to use the missions as they appear or modify to suit your group.
In each mission description, you will find example text that can be read out to the players. These example nuggets act as examples of the kinds of information that is told to the players before they have the chance to ask questions. The person likely to be saying the text is given at the start, for example:
Rob Lang: Example spoken text looks like this.
Each mission is split into Scenes. These scenes are to help you understand how the missions are put together and do not need to be told to the players.
Mission Outlines
Mission One, “The Ungodly Act” is designed to introduce your players to Icar gently with some exploration, tension and a firefight at the end. The rules used for this mission are Skill checks and Fire Fighting combat.
Mission Two, “The Lethal Rings of Obyrworld” begins with negotiations with undercover Tacquent Metropol on Obyrworld that go sour causing a close combat fight. The player Characters then acquire the location of some valuable salvage in the Rings, wherein they fight a damaged Droid. This mission uses close combat and vehicle combat.
Mission Three, “Porcupine” is where the Botchery Clipper answers a distress call to find two craft disabled. One is a Granger Fleet craft and the other is a pirate. The Granger Craft needs salvaging before the pirate craft is repaired. Leaving in the nick of time, they are then chased away by the pirates. This mission focuses on space combat and Gaia Hacking.
Mission One: The Ungodly Act 
In this mission, the team will enter their first floating wreck, survive nonlethal booby traps and finally fight for their lives against two survivors. The aim is to introduce your players to Icar’s fire fighting combat system (which is the easiest and most commonly used combat system) and for them to survive, having had a tense exploration. The aim is not total party kill!
Scene 1: En route.
Captain Stuo: We are en-route to a wreck we spotted coming back from our last salvage. It could not be hailed and from sensor readings we believe it to be adrift. We approaching to perform a medium range scan. Please feel free to relax until we have done that but no alcohol or recreational drugs.
The Ungodly Act was lured into a honey trap by The Botchery Clipper and was attacked, knocking out its light jump engines and communications systems. It also killed 8 of the 11 crew, critically injuring 1. The two crew members alive are the Human Resources (Abigail - a pretty, petit, blonde woman in her 20s, terrified and made paranoid by stress) and Security (Mary - a tall, athletic woman in her 40s with shocking white hair and a scar that runs from eye to navel). 
The injured crew member is in a suspension tube - filled with aqueous goo and kept alive on life support. This was the craft’s first officer, Barry. Both Abigail and Mary know they were attacked by the Botchery Clipper and assume that anyone coming back onto The Ungodly Act are coming to kill them.
All three are hold up in the Orbihaul that they stole from the Botchery Clipper. The Orbihaul is in the cargo bay at the back of the craft. Life support is dead and air is toxic as a result. There is very little dust, which suggests that it’s only been off for a couple of weeks. There are no dead bodies as the three crew incinerated the bodies.
Scene 2: Medium Range
Captain Stuo: We believe it is the cruiser ‘The Ungodly Act’, a registered Scavenger Vessel that was last heard of 20 days ago. This Salvage is likely to have excellent cargo prospects. Life support is damaged, as are the engines. There is no reply over Gaia, so any Gaia communications must be damaged. There might be booby traps, so be wary.
Scene 3: Approach
The team are to enter the craft at the bridge airlock.
There is no power at the airlock, anyone with Spacecraft Systems Skill make a check to open it manually (and without setting off alarms).
If fails or Spacecraft Systems then Mechasys Systems Skill check to cut using an energy cutter. This will be messy (even messier if they fail).
NB: Don’t booby trap the airlock, it will make the players too jumpy. Furthermore, the NPCs left of the craft do not have the technical knowledge to rig booby traps outside.
Scene 4: Explore the craft
The Ungodly Act has an ostentatious interior design. The pewter metal walls are dulled to show off etchings of mysterious planets that glow as you pass. Every corner is decorated with a classical column topped with scrolls. The ceiling of even the most mundane corridors will have intricate vaulting that is delicately lit. It gives off the feeling of an opulent space cruise liner, possibly because the interior was ripped from the wreck of a cruise liner. Mood lighting will still be on because each floating orb that produces it will have its own generator.
General Description
The team can then explore the craft, looking for personal affects worth credits as well as cargo. Personal affects are always first. 
Booby Traps!
Throughout the craft will be a series of small booby traps aimed to maim the team and let the two surviving crew members know that someone else is on board. Booby traps should do stun only - this is only the first game! You can fling Characters across rooms and down corridors but Stun should be the only damage they take.
The Bridge
The power on the bridge is out. Any Tech Character can bring it back to life. The hard light bridge controls will be haphazardly redirected to ’somewhere in the cargo bay’. Controls to the spacecraft are actually redirected to the Orbihaul in the cargo bay. Skill checks Gaia Hacking or Spacecraft systems to find this out. Not all of the items have been redirected: sensors and Communications have not. Communications is damaged but sensors were not moved because the two remaining crew members are not technically proficient enough to realise.
Living Quarters
There are lots of valuable personal affects in the living quarters. A Human Resources Character should roll Style for each room they are investigating. The Captain’s room will need to be cut into as the door is jammed shut (from damage).
Galley
The galley is strewn with discarded plates and cutlery. The Bioreorganiser (which is used to make food) unlocked and empty, suggesting someone has had the biomatter (from which food is made) out of it.
Suit Room
The suit room (where the team gets ready to go to a wreck) is depressurised and the door will not open unless forced. If opened, then more bulkheads will automatically close to stop air leaking out. This is where the scavenger team were when the Botchery Clipper attacked.
Cargo Bay
The Cargo bay is a huge cavern with space crates grouped together on the walls and ceiling. The Orbihaul is in the middle on one side by the airlock. There is no artificial gravity in the cargo bay (Grav Field Generator is turned off - which can be turned back on using Hacking or Spacecraft Systems). The doors are welded shut from the inside. The Characters can cut their way in (Mechasys Systems). The air in the cargo bay is still breathable (being so much of it, it takes longer to be used up).
Scene 5: Ambush!
When the players entered the Ungodly Act, the remaining two crew members were alerted to them. When they finally cut their way into the cargo bay, Mary will open fire (see stat Box). The first burst should fail as Mary scrambles for a better vantage point.
Scene 6: The Orbihaul
The Orbihaul is a pewter gun metal colour, any identifying insignia have been scratched out. Unlike the rest of the Ungodly Act, the Orbihaul has not been treated well. This is because it’s the stolen Orbihaul from the Botchery Clipper. The main cargo bay of the Orbihaul has power, gravity and life support functioning. Biomatter cartridges from Bioreorganisers across the ship are piled in one corner and in another corner is the suspension tube where the First Officer is on life support.
Abigail is hiding in the cockpit of the Orbihaul, she is terrified and will come out shooting when the team enter. Abigail will not be reasoned with, she is in a state of panic and will just fight.
Scene 7: Wrapping up
Once Abigail and Mary are dealt with, the crew will gather salvage. If unsure what to do, they can contact Iss Horn Barnarder. Iss Horn will tell them to load the Orbihaul, he will consult the Captain. The team can distribute the weapons between them. They will need them for the next mission. Iss Horn will wait until the team have filled the Orbihaul before reporting back.
Iss Horn: The Cap’n says to leave the First Officer on board the Ungodly Act.
Take the Security Member of the team aside.
Iss Horn: The Cap’n wants you to put a bullet in her head to make sure.
Whatever happens, the Captain will not allow the First Officer on board.
Mission Two: The Lethal Rings of Obyrworld
Mission two is in two parts. It mission begins with the team negotiating with poorly disguised Metropol. The Metropol aren’t friendly at all and a fight breaks out. As the fight starts to look like it will be going the player’s way, the lead Metropol negotiator will escape in a car, leading to a car chase. Once they catch the Metropol negotiator, he will release information about the valuable wreck in the rings. The second part of the mission will be the investigation of a wreck called the Toast Rack in amongst the Rings of Obyrworld. The Toast Rack is a Metropol trap and contains a heavily damaged Droid. 
The mission will give the players a chance to have a fist fight using the Close Combat rules and a vehicle-to-vehicle dog fight using the Vehicle Combat rules. The second half points out how lethal even a damaged Droid actually is.
Scene 1: En route to Obyrworld
Captain Stuo: We are going to call in a debt with some information brokers on Obyrworld. Over the past two years, we have been dealing with Obyrworld Information Brokers to supply us with details of profitable wrecks in the Rings. In return, we have been fetching them crates from abandoned stores across the cluster. The last two trips we did on the proviso that they were on the brink of discovering a valuable wreck known as The Toast Rack in the Rings. They now know the location of the wreck and want to discuss matters face to face. 
Go down to Obyrworld’s star port, Amo. Meet the information brokers in The Ancient Mariner and pick up the co-ordinates. They might want to counter offer. Do no accept it. You are not there to bargain, you are there to pick up The Toast Rack’s co-ordinates. Make sure you land the Orbihaul far from the port and use the Botchery Clipper’s Kestrel to go to and from it. Orbihauls are far too valuable to Obyrworld’s inhabitants as they are the key to getting to the Rings.
Scene 2. Into Amo and the The Ancient Mariner
The sandy sprawling port of Amo is a muddled mix of Croft buildings, an unfinished Mex City complex and a shanty town of spacecraft carcasses and space crates converted into make-shift houses. For all of its rough edges, Amo has a vibrant culture, driven by riches served down from the scavenged remains in the Rings. Those getting rich from trading scavenged goods are known as Brokers and they are both business and criminal organisation. As such, most of the inhabitants either are or aspire to be connected in some way to a Broker.
People in Amo can be group easily between those that spend a lot of time in the rings - who are pale and well dressed and those that live only on Obyrworld, who are tanned and scruffy. The darker your skin, the less time you’ve spent in the Rings. A pale pallor is seen as a badge to be proud of.
The Ancient Mariner
Situated in the very hub on Amo is a bar called The Ancient Mariner. Frequented by Scavengers and Brokers, it is where business transactions are proposed, shouted, wrestled and set on fire. The Ancient Mariner has a no guns policy, enforced by an 8ft tall Borg called Williamson. He will stay out of fights that don’t involve guns but when a gun is drawn, he will tangle with whomever gets in his way. Any damage that you do to the Ancient Mariner needs to be paid for. If you refuse then debt collection will be handed over to the Brokers and Amo will become a no-go zone.
GM: A huge Borg 8 feet tall welcomes you to The Ancient Mariner with a nod. You indicates a sign to one side of the door above some lockers that says “Customers are politely requested to bring No weapons into the bar”. The bar has a vaulted ceiling filled with hanging examples of ‘treasure’ found in the rings. Each piece looks like a time capsule from a time 1000 years ago when the Droids first struck: adverts from long defunct companies, memorabilia from dead sports stars and trinkets that were once prized. 
The layout of the bar is entirely secluded booths, each with its own sound field generator that ensures privacy. Between the booths where rickety Automatons shuffle plays a laid back jazz. An Automaton shows you to your table, Adam Harrod has been expecting you./
Scene 3. The Negotiation with fists
Captain Adam Harrod is a Metropol spacecraft Captain who has been hiding in the Obyrworld rings for nearly a year. A cruel, violent, bloodthirsty man, he is tired of the waiting game that Tacquent has commanded him. He wants action and is a tinderbox waiting to ignite. His battle ready Cruiser The Void Cutter is hidden inside a particularly large chunk of debris. Adam has been posing as an information broker to obtain Metropol supplies that have been hidden around the Cluster that the Botchery Clipper (and other spacecraft) have been collecting for him. As the Brokers rarely leave Obyrworld and certainly have no interest in the Metropol, he has them all fooled. 
Adam Harrod is bald, 70 (35 in 21st Century years), with thick tattoos instead of eyebrows. He speaks slowly, with a growl to his voice. He won’t give over the Toast Rack details to the team without more  work because he is a bored megalomaniac and wants to feel important while remaining low key.
Even the slightest provocation will start a fight between the players and him. Any provocation and he throw his drink, turn over the table or yell abuse. Other bar regulars might side with him when the fight starts. Use the bar regulars to pad out the fight if you have a lot of players.
If the fight goes badly
If you find that the players are losing (due to poor luck), you can have one of Adam’s Henchmen draw a gun. Williamson, the security Borg, will step in and disarm him, knock him out and throw him onto the street. Other bar fighters might see this and decide to give up.
Non Player Character Statistics
Adam Harrod
Battle: 6, Meat: 5, Shift: 5, Soul: 4, Wit: 4, AR: 1, H: 10, LA: 10, T: 40, RA: 10, LL: 15, RL:15. Stun: 100
Psychotheatric: Spatially Aware. 
Skills: Pilot Grav: 65%, Combat Pilot Grav: 50%, Light Firing: 60%. 
Droffilozi
A thuggish brute that acts as Adam’s security when on the surface. Small, beady eyes deep set into a chiselled face. Won’t really say anything.
Battle: 7, Meat: 9, Shift: 3, Soul: 6, Wit: 2, AR: 1, H: 10, LA: 10, T: 40, RA: 10, LL: 15, RL:15. Stun: 140
Ambleowe
A slight but ferocious fighter who acts as Adam’s ego massager. A weasly yes man who is handy in a fight.
Battle: 6, Meat: 3, Shift: 7, Soul: 3, Wit: 4.
Body: AR: 1, H: 10, LA: 10, T: 40, RA: 10, LL: 15, RL:15. Stun: 80
Williamson Borg Security
An 8ft metal skinned Borg, will only join the fight if weapons are drawn. Although he /can/ do Meat damage with each hit, he will not kill anyone - only knock them out.
Battle: 8, Meat: 24, Shift: 14, Soul: 3, Wit: 4.
Body: AR: 15, H: 800, LA: 900, T:2300, RA: 900, LL: 800, RL: 800. Stun: 400. 
A typical bar regular
Battle: 4, Meat: 3, Shift: 4, Soul: 3, Wit: 3.
Body: AR: 1, H: 10, LA: 10, T: 40, RA: 10, LL: 15, RL:15. Stun: 80
Scene 4: The chase
Adam will escape out the front of the bar (his ) before he runs out of Stun. He drives a poorly disguised Metropol van. Only those Characters that have a background on  Essofin have a chance of noticing that (Wit roll with -2 difficulty). He is escaping to a shuttle hidden in a gully 6 miles out of town.
The Metropol van has a door-mounted gun but it needs someone to fire it and Adam will be on his own. Instead, he will be firing a Havan 11 from a hole in the windshield. As Harrod has the Psychotheatric Spatially Aware, he can fire his weapon from his moving van while firing at another moving car (the player Characters) without attracting the “target moving” modifier. He will keep trying to fight the players - even though his van is faster than the player’s Kestrel. Running would only show where his shuttle is located.
If the players are finding it difficult to shoot down the Metropol van (because they have left their weapons at the weapons check) then you can suggest that boarding the Metropol van is possible (and nonlethal). They need to win advantage, and board the van instead of shooting. If the players can think up another way then let them do it when they gain the Advantage. More information on Dog Fighting can be found on page 17.
At the end of the chase, the players should have a plastic data card that will have co-ordinates of the Toast Rack in the rings. If you have a Character with Hacking, then say they need to hack the card to get the information off. If they search the van then they will find some Arm 5 rifles with ammunition and LVGs.
Scene 5: Into the Rings
GM: The Rings of Obyrworld consist the debris of three huge Orb space stations that were destroyed by the inhabitants when the system was about to fall to the Droids. The rings teem with valuable debris and even complete spacecraft. Most of the debris is more than 1000 years old, dating from when the Droids attacked. Iss Horn tells you to get suited up.
The Toast Rack is a model of spacecraft only 150 years old - which is considered to be new in Icar. Consider the Rings of Obyrworld as an asteroid field where the asteroids are remnants of human engineering. As such, the Toast Rack has taken a lot of surface damage (shields will protect most craft without a problem but the Toast Rack has shields down) and looks battered and old. Any Zero G technicians should do a Spacecraft know Skill check. A pass will show that the Toast Rack is new, a pass by more than 40 should reward them with more information from below.
The Toast Rack
The Toast Rack was a spacecraft stolen from the House Granger Fleet by Metropol Savants. The Savants took the Toast Rack (with the families and crew on board) to the Rings of Obyrworld and dropped a damaged Mk 1 Droid (humanoid skeleton) into the craft. The Droid killed everyone on board. The Savants then wanted to move the Toast Rack into the path of the Granger Fleet - hoping they would take it onto one of the huge Granger hulk Star Docs, where the Droid could wreak havoc. In a large fight that destroyed much of the internal systems, the Droid took out the Savants too. Since then, the Savants have treated the craft as a place to send people they want to double cross and not come back.
The Toast Rack has no power, no atmosphere and no gravity.
Scene 6: Onto the Toast Rack
The Toast Rack should be seen as a typical mission. The inside of the toast rack are strewn with bodies of two kinds. The majority are scavengers in Moss EV suits, sent there by Metropol Savants to ‘disappear’. There will also be the bodies of families, frozen in time. The Droid will wait a few minutes to appraise the newcomers before attacking. The Droid does not have any weapons but does blunt damage in close combat. The Droid will use hit-and-run guerilla tactics.
The craft has been stripped of any worthy salvage but there are personal items the dead scavengers and families. This is a perfect time to give the Security member a weapon upgrade to an Astraripper 2E (or similar). You can limit its effectiveness by providing only 100 rounds of ammunition.
Mission Three: Porcupine
This mission is in two parts and should be completed in one play session at considerable speed. The first part is the arrival at a fresh wreck that has to be stripped at speed. The second part is escape from the wreck and space combat. By the end of this combat, you have the option of killing Iss Horn Barnarder and Captain Stuo and giving the team the Botchery Clipper as their own first spacecraft.
Scene 1: En Route
Captain Stuo: We have received a distress call from a craft just one hour away. They are being attacked by pirates and are losing spacecraft systems hand over foot. Either we will be early enough to help or late enough to salvage. Either way, we’re going in. Suit up and arm up.
Scene 2: Approach
Captain Stuo: We have finished our Light Jump and there are two craft here. One (called the Porcupine) is completely disabled, we believe that it was the one putting out the distress call. There is also an armed pirate vessel (called The Unbroken Arrow), which is also heavily damaged. I can see crews on the outside of the pirate vessel performing repairs, so we may have limited time. The plan is to pick up cargo of any worth and leave before the pirates are repaired. While you’re on board see if you can ascertain the origin of the craft. Time is short, so suit up./
Iss Horn Barnarder will be in the suiting room for this mission, helping everyone get ready. He will be generating a lot of nervous energy. It is notable because it is the first time that anyone would have seen Iss Horn nervous. Rather than use the Orbihaul, the Botchery Clipper will dock onto the side of the Porcupine.
Scene 3: The Porcupine
The Porcupine is a very well looked after Granger Fleet spacecraft, a medium sized freighter (larger than the Botchery Clipper), its job was part habitation and part cargo. More than 500 people lived on board. Everyone is now dead, through depressurisation and life support failure. The salvage here will be for expensive personal items, trinkets, jewellery and other items that can be carried off easily. Iss Horn will advise them to get into the living quarters, which will be filled with floating corpses, and search for expensive items. As the Porcupine is a modern craft, all the Characters will be able to spot expensive items. The Captain’s quarters has a safe that includes the documents for the craft and a card with 110 000 credits on it. 
During the search of the Porcupine, the team will be hurried by Iss Horn, who will be watching the repairs on the Pirate craft very carefully. The Botchery Clipper will be docked onto the Porcupine in such a way that the Pirate craft cannot get a lock on.
Scene 4: Back to the Botch
The first set of systems that the Pirate craft will get back online will be its pulse laser. The Pirate will start opening fire on the Porcupine, attempting to kill off the Scavenger team. Inside of the Porcupine, there will be flying debris, energy shock waves and plenty of gas clouds caused by base metals turning to steam. This translates to the player Characters being thrown around, picking up a lot of stun and needing to help each other get off the pirate craft. After 20 turns of firing, the Porcupine will start to break up and the Botchery Clipper will need to undock and move clear.
Note that the Porcupine is entirely silent as it breaks up. Only when debris or shock waves hit the Character will there be any sound. As communications are Gaia based, they will not be affected by any energy shock waves.
Scene 5: Escape!
Once onto the Botchery Clipper, the technical people will be ordered to the Engineering bay and everyone else will need to go to the bridge. Space Combat will then begin. The Captain will make the decisions on what needs to be done at each step. At first, the aim will be to disable the Pirate Craft and then escape. If this does not work out then the Captain will just escape. At no time will the Captain entertain the option of boarding The Unbroken Arrow. If badgered by the players to attack, Captain Stuo will say:
Captain Stuo: Never judge the crew by the craft
Make sure that during Space Combat everyone is kept busy.
The Unbroken Arrow
The Unbroken Arrow is a typical pirate craft that bristles with guns and speed but lacks defence and cargo capacity. The Unbroken Arrow was damaged heavily in its fight with the Porcupine and although the crew have worked hard to get it back online, it is a shadow of its former power. As such, it is now slightly weaker than the Botchery Clipper. The Broken Arrow will give chase for a few turns but will eventually give up when they realise that the Botcher Clipper has excellent shielding.
(Optional) Scene 6: Interloper
One of pirates from The Unbroken Arrow were hiding on The Porcupine when the Botchery Clipper docked. As the team searched the Porcupine, the pirate crept onto the Botchery Clipper and hid. After they escape, he will break onto the bridge and kill the Captain and Iss Horn Barnarder in a suicide run. As the team should be in their EV suits still, they should be protected. The attacker only needs a pistol to kill them both.
Mission Ideas
If at the end of the 3 missions, your team are still finding their feet, then I can recommend using the Botchery Clipper under the command of Captain Stuo a little more. Either way, these are ideas for further missions. This missions, although touching on the main campaign elements in the setting are not events in the campaign itself and are therefore good precursor missions.
Return to Obyrworld
The team were double crossed by Adam Harrod, return to Obyrworld to demand compensation. This would lead to making Tacquent an enemy, which would in turn create plenty of plot hooks.
The Astro Graveyard
The Graveyard is located on the edge of a nebula and contains thousands of wrecks. As the Droids were sweeping through the cluster, many craft banded together and hid, hoping to be ignored. This fleet consisted largely of unarmed refugee craft. Now, they float on the edge of a spectacular nebula. The self-proclaimed owners of the salvage will not like others picking off choice spacecraft without their permission (and tribute). There is nothing illegal about the player Characters scavenging in the Fleet but the owners might disagree.
Botchery Clipper’s Lower Bay
The lower bay on the Botchery Clipper contains a damaged Droid Mk 3. Some damage to the Botchery Clipper has allowed it to become unleashed and has finally worked its way through into the main cargo bay. It must be destroyed.
Carl Tacquent’s Gambit
Lesser family member Carl Tacquent is trying to get a name for himself. He challenges Scavenger Teams to bring back a statue created by Bellerwick. There are four statues in Anadar and he gives the location of one on Obyrworld. The reward is 2 million for the first team to return one intact. The statues are 100m tall and made out of granite. 
The teams can either go to Obyrworld and fight for that one or use the Undergaia/Gaia Research to find another nearby. Then there is the problem of moving it safely into orbit. Captain Stuo will use the money on improving the Botchery Clipper and equipment for the team. The subsidiary aim for this mission is for the team to meet other Scavenger teams and deal with them either with respect-among-thieves or a fight.
